we	kita
we	kami
father	mama
uniform	redo
pearl	cinco
gift	amid
taro	tali
accusation	kokot
breast	coco
meat	titi
grandmother	ama
eye	mata
ball	mali
wind	fali
I	kako
noise	soni
elephant	eco
mosquito	likes
what	maan
war	lood
how many	pina
pigeon	topi
eel	toda
student	sito
bird's-nest fern	lokot
mother	ina
who	cima
child	wawa
box	hako
flower	hana
face	laway
elder brother	kaka
rain	orad
you	kiso
flood	cedas
table	parad
blood	remes
earthquake	lonen
cat	posi
female	poki
horse	efa
goat	siri
sugar apple	kida
cat	pusi
chase after	toor
tooth	wadis
you	kamo
south	timol
skin	fanges
flying squirrel	rapit
dance	kero
little	miming
crab	kalang
money	pida
waterfall	cascas
drive out	laplap
ice	koli
anchor	enor
sickness	adada
give	feli
side	lilis
hand	kamay
cloud	kadit
sun	cidal
monkey	lotong
rice	felac
owl	ekong
go to	tayra
tree	kilang
bamboo	aol
overcast	kotem
piece	setel
loofah	roni
water	nanom
thief	kokong
knife	fonos
leaf	papah
ear	tangila
mix	lamlam
eggplant	kiyo
oil	simal
fingernail	kanoos
eyebrow	kalaw
in	liyad
weed	rengos
umbrella	linay
cabbage	tamana
puppy	totoy
Japan	Ripon
loquat	fiwa
pigeon	fanol
noodles	walay
saliva	ngalay
crow	palang
dance	makero
head	tangal
hair	fokes
rice	panay
like	sanay
calf	tofor
cotton	parok
dog	waco
root	lamit
doctor	ising
fish	foting
seedling	sapal
soup	kafi
moon	fulad
deer	malunem
water buffalo	kolong
rabbit	takulil
vegetable	dateng
flying squirrel	lawal
lazy	matoka
hardworking	malalok
happy	lipahak
thick	kiftol
Monday	safuladan
Tuesday	sanamalan
Wednesday	sananoman
Thursday	sakilangan
Friday	safudawan
Saturday	saseraan
Sunday	sacidalan
rice paddy	omah
mountain	lotok
school	pitilidan
watermelon	lidaw
mango	nanges
salt	cilah
telephone	tingwa
bowl	kaysing
table	sapad
bitter gourd	kakorot
straw mushroom	faniw
pumpkin	tamorak
cowpea	kalitang
book	cudad
pencil	impic
eraser	sararop
eraser	sasisit
steamer	mahod
basket	faroro
dustpan	caki
walking stick	cokor
banana	pawli
strawberry	edox
dawn	kanikaran
night	dadaya
noon	kalahokan
morning	dafak
train	cinamlay
shoe	cukap
country	kanatal
hat	kafong
birthday	kasofocan
bicycle	kolisiw
bicycle	tokikar
farmer	malingaday
fisherman	mifutingay
cockroach	dadipis
butterfly	adipangpang
cricket	tanikay
where	icowa
uncle	faki
wife	fafahi
husband	fa'inay
enemy	'ada
friend	widang
youngster	kaemangay
student	mitiliday
bone	'okak
lip	filfil
throat	takolaw
shoulder	'afala
knee	tosor
nose	ngoso'
mouth	ngoyos
chest	falohang
right	kawanan
left	kawili
head	fongoh
face	pising
neck	li'el
belly	tiyad
thigh	cepi'
finger	tarodo'
foot	wa'ay
bottom	saripa'
pupil	'emamosa
buttocks	hemot
pig	fafoy
pine tree	caleng
firefly	'alopaynay
flea	'atimela
praying mantis	kacidalay
way	lalan
wound	doka'
thread	keliw
mistake	raraw
soup	kohaw
egg	fita'ol
cave	dihif
perhaps	latek
immediately	tangsol
he	cingra
they	cangra
sour	'acicim
tasteless	afsa'
drink	minanom
fever	lalisan
typhoon	faliyos
typhoon	lenlen
fog	carofacof
year	miheca
rice	'ong'ong
rice	'adi
day	romi'ad
watermelon	kacawas
man	kayap
leader	kakeridan
liver	'atay
heart	faloco'
people	tamdaw
because	nawhani
white	'ofad
glass	takid
half	pangkiw
grandfather	akong
pillow	tatangalan
they	nguani
he	thithu
they	thaythuy
column	salil
spring onion	kenaw
wheat	edid
meat	heci
grow	lahad
lesser yam	konga
rabbit	kudiwis
president	congtong
glove	edong
value	epoc
gold	fodawan
letter	tikami
spinning top	'acocol
shadow	'adingo
cockscomb	'adiping
life	'orip
rattan	'oway
tomorrow	anocila
jawbone	cala'
kitchen	cawka
color	cengel
resin	cica'
piglet	ciciw
scale	cikaf
elbow	ciko
yesterday	cila
cross	ciwcika
chick	ciwciw
sweat	cohel
shoe	cokap
angel	coyoh
eyeglasses	dadingo
nasal	dinget
grape	fadisoso'
rib	fadowac
gecko	fafikfik
lung	fala'
leather	falako
spider	falalotong
kite	fasiyaw
bat	fidadoki
thyroid gland	fihid
earring	fiting
stomach	fitoka
neighbor	fiyaw
star	fo'is
stone	fokeloh
sand	fonak
sweet potato	fonga
beetle	hengad
friend	idang
child-in-law	kadafo
comb	kadat
pants	kafer
praying mantis	kakawangay
pomelo	kamoraw
shoulder	dofot
he	ciira
my	no mako
our	no niyam
your	no miso
your	no namo
his	niira
their	nangra
what	mimaan
whose	mimaay
how	masamaan
how	mamaan
how many	hacowa
how	papina
car	paliding
bus	fasu^
bicycle	koliciw
bicycle	citinsiya
train	ciyataw
tyre	fiher
ship	tamina
train	cinamalay
ship	lonan
spouse	ramod
relative	ngasaw
sister-in-law	'ali
male	teloc
married couple	mararamoday
in-law	malacingki
brother	salikaka
younger brother	safa^
aunt	fayi
relative	laloma'an
mouth	ngapa^
take	mingingoy
body	tireng
forehead	ca^ong
breast	coco^
shoulder	’afala^
chin	ngaroy
back	koror
scrotum	fotol
elbow	ciko^
phlegm	teloho'
goitre	poco'
thumb	salitata'ang
tongue	sema^
waist	kakeletan
waist	tatelecan
joint	ngolngolan
hip	pakah
neck	’a’ilocan
armpit	kakiri'an
kidney	fowa'
body	fanoh
tail	wikol
bird	'ayam
mouse	edo^
frog	takora'
pangolin	'alem
insect	fao^
turtle	rarokoh
snake	'oner
leopard	lokedaw
sambar	malonem
bear	tomay
Reeves	ma^cel
Reeves	mangcel
dragonfly	fecacido'
butterfly	'adipangpang
spider	felalotong
spider	filalotong
genital	panga^
squirrel	fohet
voles	malafaw
head louse	koto^
fly	lalangaw
bee	'odal
male	okang
unweaned	fo^kan
duck	howak
earthworm	'atikak
poisonous	kaketi
shrimp	'afar
female	tawinaan
cicada	dadacdac
cicada	dadayday
wing	sapikpik
bat	podadoki^
snail	kacomoli^
sparrow	'alic
stag beetle	ferarangad
eagle	'alilis
eagle	lidep
ant	alonah
ant	kakonah
goose	tatarowa^
waterbird	cowi'
nest	dipong
wasp	tatekoh
flea	'atimla^
cobra	kakohkoh
crow	'ak'ak
horn	pohong
grasshopper	riri'
horn	waa'
paddy	safak
taro	tali^
sugar cane	tefos
grass	semot
orange	mami'
flower	rohayan
corn	ariray
betel palm	icep
tree	ca'ang
bamboo shoot	tefo'
pineapple	talacay
vine	oway
peach	lopas
plum	minowad
fruit	soyko
root	tapangan
wood ear	fitawngi'
lily	caracar
cucumber	tara'ar
cucumber	'okoy
carrot	nincin
water spinach	incay
passion fruit	payayoka
Japanese cypress	fahdil
Japanese cypress	fidengal
seed	sapaloma^
seedling	misasapal
wild strawberry	kamacal
Chinese plum	umiy
vegetable fern	pahko^
stinging nettle	sedeng
red bean	rara'
red bean	rihom
pigeon pea	fata'an
grapefruit	karo'
grapefruit	wirok
tobacco	tamako^
chili pepper	damidam
guava	kidafes
mung bean	naniwac
forest	kilakilangan
stream	sa'owac
stream	'alo
sand	fonafonakan
ground	sera^
dust	alafoh
river	tarawadaw
lake	fanaway
crack	ngala'
soil	'opo^
grassland	dafdaf
wall	'adipel
hot spring	onsing
canyon	tonotono'an
rock	'ongcoy
frost	'o'ol
flood	macedas
spring	kacanglahan
sea	riyar
fall	kafarawfawan
rain	'orad
rain	ma'orad
rainbow	teker ni idek
frost	o'ol
thunder	rohroh
thunder	fitili'
lightning	kalapiyat
moon	folad
sky	kakarayan
ice	soreda^
cloud	cahid
smoke	acefel
dry land	hadhad
fire	lamal
shadow	adingo^
summer	kacihrangan
winter	kasienawan
shut	'edefen
come over	katayni
come	tayni
open	fawah
buy	cakay
sell	pacakay
give	pafeli
lend	caliw
walk	romakat
fly	efer
run	comikay
arrive	tangasa
send	dongos
run away	laliw
enter	comod
turn	mafelin
turn back	cofay
ride	kalic
walk	mililis
fall down	fonor
go	sacakat
pick up	militemoh
receive	cada^
borrow	milada'
pour	tapolong
catch up	matoor
separate	malaliyas
carry	hakiwid
put on	ca'edong
wear	sakafongen
go	masadak
sit	aro'
stand	tomireng
close	'edef
visit	miliso'
sap	'adeteng
dirt	'oning
umbrella	cacelakan
ship	cifar
book	codad
electrical	dingki
bucket	fakici
computer	kampiwta
bag	lofoc
needle	rinom
medicine	sapaiyo
pot	sioy
clock	tipelok
gathering	adawang
gather	kalisawotan
assembly	kalisowotan
terrific	kapakapah
one	kinacecay
meeting	lisawot
assemble	komod
gather	komoden
gather	malisawot
exactly	masanoli'ay
collect	mi'adidemay
collect	mi'adimaceng
collect	midateng
hold	mikayki
collect	minaliti'ay
collect	misoped
rice	'opo
offer	pakamaro'
money	payci
place	pi'adideman
reunion	polongen
many	rekrek
collect	mi'adiyam
collect	soped
us	tamiyanan
group	yofayof
germinate	canglah
spring	masacanglah
time	kacicengo'an
many	karafitakolaay
slice	cidap
short-tempered	karafirang
pick	komimit
measure	latlat
arrange	losimet
comfort	mihima
measure	milatlat
let	palatlaten
plan	sakisera
press	hetecen
excavate	kadkad
research	mikadkad
researcher	mikadkaday
organ	tekelo
convenient	caloway
hate	cangal
court	hoing
ride	madakaway
proud of	malata'ang
work	matayal
stay	picafer
get	ficekot
patient	hadi^di
guide	kerid
guide	ridrid
ditch	tarimasa'
occupation	tayal
thankworthy	aahowiden
free	pairari
straight	fesoc
ask	papiceli'en
wise	cifongohay
patient	mihadi^diay
conductor	mikeriday
train	mikonling
convey	paon^on
guided	maridriday
lead	papiridriden
peaceful	cirihadayay
equipped	patarimasa'en
guide	mipakawanan
understand	pakafana'
amuse	papisalama
understand	pasifana'
understand	pasifana'ay
understand	pasifana'en
extend	cowat
stretch	fiyac
display	pa'araw
extend	macowat
extend	micowat
lengthen	mikonayat
participate	papiondokayen
sports	papiyatayat
mix	camol
jump	cedo'
startled	cekok
shoot	fetir
frog	fitakola
jump off	hatefo
jump	hitefo
hop	ifor
good	kapah
soft	komaingay
grow	pa'adipingen
put on	paca'elayen
put on	cicangaw
startled	mapacekok
put on	papipacora'en
jump	mafetir
wear	pakayapen
place	kakeroan
dance	masakero
dance	misakerokeroay
dance	malalikid
shake	mirmiren
shiny	pamiyaten
habit	pinangan
open	mapiyak
shake	sapiyopiyok
unified	maredoay
handsome	pasanengsengen
angry	matelii
bind	kaci'efec
jump off	maepod
blown	mafiyokay
flea	mita'ekod
harvest festival	malikoda
capture	ma'adopay
caught	malakelaway
compliment	palata'angen
compliment	papalata'angen
send	patayra
set	wa'ilen
chase	mitoor
east	nowalian
six	enemay
leech	widi
six	aenem
have	aenemay
ask	enemen
chopstick	alalpit
wrinkle	kofel
spread	micidapay
choppy	cirodisay
choppy	palodisen
lay down	epoden
brave	codah
observe	hinam
arrest	lepet
lock up	rofo
bind	so'ot
police	tayring
use	pa'atimen
please	ca'oren
fined	mafaking
observe	hinamen
observe	mihinam
wink	papikececen
bound	maso'otay
become	sakalatayring
hot	fa^detay
higher	faleday
dissolute	ma'amelasay
catch	mamalepel
reply	paca'of
motorcycle	pakatofayay
chapter	cefang
ethnic	finacadan
woven	tenoon
flocks	ma'alepaday
flocks	pa'alepaden
submerge	madicadic
herd	fafofafoy
have	cifinacadan
become	malafinacadan
regard	kasangasawen
disperse	palopisaken
flock	maloneloneman
law-abiding	marikecay
place	pasirisirian
pack	wacowacoan
clan	kasafinacadan
emperor	hongti
emperor	malahongti
refrigerator	pinsyang
Taipei	Taypak
teacher	singsi
sand	tafok
piggery	fafoyan
milk	hacol
pestle	'asolo
