bird	yeti
hip	anu
island	ba
bream	bwana
owl	we
hole	kali
carry	lay
forehead	pay
place	ni
buttocks	mu
mouth	ga
black	la
stomach	ra
do	pu
black	raw
sky	rana
rough-bark	nama
climb	bana
man	ma
vegetable	ay
barracouta	bay
tree	ku
give	ya
excrement	ri
queenfish	maru
pull	a
tick	tiri
spear	duru
buck	goy
empty	rama
grey	wa
tongue	lana
friend	pana
knee	gu
now	kunu
maternal grandfather	kuku
tie	tha
paternal grandfather	mayi
tooth	baw
egg	pawa
king parrot	kili
beard	ŋa
fast	dadi
grey	roga
seagull	yara
wake up	mæ
tin	tini
fire	mwa
maternal aunt	ruri
cat	gya
sandpaper tree	ragu
milkwood	sæla
have	kwii
lice	kaw
harpoon	lali
swallow	napu
sweet potato	kumala
one	pimi
feather	yeri
drum	tarama
sea	lanu
again	βa
look for	gawri
foot	kwe
red	ubu
carpet snake	barana
riverbank	paana
walk	læ
bulrushes	rugu
break	bwa
toenail	arana
marrow	ladi
wood duck	kiri-kiri
hand	ʔa
white	rwa
ask	gæ
wake	ʔi
fishnet	rumu
horse	maruku
moon	ad̪iki
wrinkle	ad̪iti
suffer	aᶁima
go	aŋa
maternal uncle	aŋukwin̪i
grandchild	aŋurud̪i
daughter	aŋut̪a
bark	aɽu
oldest	awn̪ilad̪i
middle	awn̪ipwa
bag	baɣa
up	baɽi
wild	baanu
short	biini
long ago	bɽadʳa
husband	bɽaŋa
play	bɽeʔeŋa
mud	bɽi
beach	bɽeɲi
dirty	bɽiŋi
noisy	bɽiŋi-bɽiŋi
night	bɽuyi
afternoon	bɽuyi-bɽuyi
ghost	buʔu
clever	buʔu-ᶁe
scorpion	büɣu
meat	bwaʔa
Torres Strait pigeon	bwaraka
break	bwæni
kill	bwii
back	bwiini
water goanna	dimiᶁit̪i
word	duðu
old	dupɽiɣu
name	duwiði
garfish	duulu
small	duunu
beach	dwaɣa
salmon	dwakwabat̪i
sugarbag bee	dwiri
splinter	d̪a
testicles	d̪aɣu
grass	d̪aʔa
sap	d̪aaƫamana
greedy	d̪ææwat̪i
wasp	d̪eeni
Melaleuca quinquenervia	d̪i
New Guinea	d̪it̪i
kingfisher	d̪uɽi
eye	d̪wa
eyeball	d̪wa-pawa
eyebrow	d̪wa-pay
wild	d̪walad̪i
buttocks	d̪wiʔi
string	d̪wimi
vine	d̪wini
ground	ᶁa
reef	ᶁaatini
good	ᶁe
fall	ᶁii
breast	ᶁuʔu
leave	dʳa
live	dʳadat̪a
current	dʳat̪i
umbrella palm	dʳeebɽi
trevally	dʳeegwati
outrigger	dʳeemɽi
different	dʳeeni
shirt	dʳeet̪imɽi
throat	dʳi
sweet	dʳiiᶁiti
today	dʳwaʔara
woman	dʳwamɽa
wife	dʳwaŋa
shell	dʳwe
brolga	dʳwili
wing	dʳya
white	ðawƫiki
mother	ðay
hungry	ðaymɽi
burn	ðadi
bury	ðææɲa
afraid	ðitama
sew	ðu
yamstick	ðuʔu
small	ðurupu
follow	ðutu
flow	ðwata
lies	ðwimi
two	ðwit̪i
kookaburra	gaʔaga
chin	gaʔu
beard	gaʔu-ŋa
pannikin	gamaraŋu
bad	gapɽa
star	gaɽaka
sour	gatʳali
crocodile	gawðaɣi
shout	gægi
laugh	gæʔama
emu	geᶁiŋana
no	geʔe
tickle	geʔekeka
sit	geɽa
curlew	guwana
heavy	guunu
eat	gwapɽa
north	gwat̪a
lily	gweeni
ankle	gwunu
messmate tree	ɣaɣu
taro	ɣama
bloodwood	ɣaɽu
rain	ɣay
snake	ɣeɽi
distant	ɣunu
tall	ɣurupiᶁi
sand	ɣwa
sandhill	ɣwa-pay
swim	ɣwagat̪a
coughing	ɣwini
axe	ɣyaŋa
spear	ɣyu
scrub	ɣyüdi
lawyer cane	id̪i
termite	iɣi
brown	iɣiti
oyster	kad̪aka
black	kaᶁi
skin	kaɣu
jealous	kaɣu rimi-rimi
palm	kaɣu-ᶁe
coconut palm	kaɣupaɽaƫi
muscle	kaɣu-weeɣe
mixed-race	kaɣu-βwat̪i
gully	kalipwa
find	kan̪aŋa
crawl	karagwa
beer	karuku
red	karupu
down	kaɽa
perhaps	katiʔi
deep	kat̪i
later on	kayi-kayi
clean	kerimi
knife	kiɽi
left	köyɣi
islander	kukulææɣe
woodpecker	kumuᶁini
fighting	kutʳaka
grub	kuwati
quandong	kwabi
crane	kwad̪aʔa
nape	kwana
footprint	kwe-rãɣa
straight	kweʔe
long	kwiʔit̪i
possum	kwiniɣi
cassowary	kwiniiɣi
oldest	kwiiɣi
wrist	kwumɽu
alligator	kyabara
blister	ʔunuwana
tame	ʔwa
pup	ʔwapwa
cut	ʔweʔe
chest	ʔwiini
hair	ʔya
eyelashes	ʔya-d̪wa-pay
twigs	ʔyaana
white gum tree	ʔyuɽu
girl	lad̪i
hawk	laðu
leg	laga-laga
lizard	laɣa
jaw	laɣu
white	laɣubɽeɽi
stranger	lamalat̪i
alive	lat̪imi
death adder	laagaʔa
grass tree	læd̪i
tree fork	lææɣa
mangrove	luʔu
swell up	luluma
sickness	lwaga
kingfish	lwagati
sick	lwagat̪imɽi
lake	lwe
angry	lwiiɣi
small	maɣa
armpit	maɣu
saltwater	maɣuʔiini
lips	maɣunu
lift up	maʔat̪aŋa
older	maʔæni
corroboree	malɣari
message stick	mamalit̪i
bamboo	marapi
countryman	mawkwiɣi
club	mid̪i
land	mɽæɽaᶁi
black	mɽæ̃ƫiri
many	mɽit̪iki
firestick	muʔut̪u
fish	murut̪i
anthole	mutu-mutu
white	mut̪it̪i
fin	muwã
fig tree	muwĩ
hot	mwa-rwiʔi
dance	mwi
sore	mwin̪i
short	myüɣu
frying-pan	namaraŋu
sweat	natabani
tired	natimi
father	nat̪i
boy	niiɣi
navel	nubut̪i
wild potato	nuunu
fish	n̪a
fern	n̪agu
ironwood	n̪amweɣe
stand	n̪arama
small	n̪ed̪i
different	n̪u
kick	ɲu
paddle	ŋaba
clothes	ŋu
hot	ŋuubwa
mosquito	ŋuulu
sun	ŋwa
catfish	ŋwaʔat̪a
bandicoot	ŋwaɽi
pour out	ŋwit̪a
recently	paᶁiki
yawn	paguru
blue-tongue lizard	paʔu
flower	palawara
stone	papaƫi
cottonwood	paɽupaɽaƫi
fix	pat̪a
canoe	patʳa
outrigger canoe	patʳa-dʳeemɽi
blunt	pawƫi
ashamed	pay ðuwi-ðuwi
hillside	pay-ᶁa
come out	pæ
elbow	pæʔa
thunder	pemini
rub	pɽa
morning	pɽaŋa
pick up	pɽeɽe
frog	pɽoʔa
maggot	pɽuʔu
rainy season	pɽulu
small	puði
water	puʔa
blanket	pulugin̪i
bullock	puluku
hard	put̪uku
many	puƫiki
sailboat	putʳu
billycan	puyimi
kangaroo rat	pwaʔakwit̪i
lily	pwapu
go in	pwee
groper	pweeke
bone	pwi
clear	raɣu
river	ran̪a
creek	ran̪apwa
bailer shell	ran̪i
shade	rãɣa
whitefish	rẽɣe
hit	riŋi
smash	riyiga
grandson	rud̪i
stingray	rugunu
taipan	ruluku
kidney	rumupɽana
maternal aunt	ruɽi
fishing line	rwagaƫi
bamboo	rwamat̪i
charcoal	rwiʔi
almond	rwili
recently	ɽama
jabiru	ɽaad̪eɣe
honey	ɽæᶁiŋana
crow	ɽeɽi
nose	ɽi
mucus	ɽiði
jealous	ɽi put̪uku
oak	ɽiɽi
freshwater	ɽid̪i
green	ʃiʔi
culture hero	ʃiβiri
small	tabwa
wife	tapiƫi
road	taβa
wife	taβayama
soft	tiɣati
swamp	tiini
cliff	tugumu
trochus	tuɽi
plain	twala
bash	twiniŋa
stand	t̪a
chase	t̪abæ
younger	t̪abwa
shoulder	t̪alu
thumb	t̪ama
wing	t̪api
spotted	t̪arana
cold	t̪aɽaŋa
cold	t̪aɽiti
fighting	t̪at̪a
push	t̪æ
blue	t̪æβi
earwax	t̪id̪ini
saltwater	t̪ilini
large	t̪imɽit̪i
large	t̪imɽiƫi
lady apple	t̪inipɽeɽe
large	t̪inipɽi
porcupine	t̪iribwit̪i
willy wagtail	t̪it̪iri
smash	t̪iyiga
thigh	t̪iini
west	t̪u
leaf	t̪ud̪u
leg	t̪uʔu
dead	t̪umu
eagle	t̪wara
language	ƫa
tail	ƫaɣa
large	ƫakara
longtail stingray	ƫaʔaga
run	ƫaʔaƫeɽa
jump	ƫama
say	ƫæɽa
burr	ƫeɽiyeɽi
joey	ƫiᶁiri
fishhawk	ƫiti
see	ƫii
tobacco	ƫuɣuβu
three	ƫumu
tell	ƫwa
wash	ƫwaðaga
heap up	ƫwaka
hill	ƫwama
wave	ƫwana
float	ƫwarama
flood	ƫweeɣe
say	ƫwi
beeswax	ƫwiƫiŋana
barramundi	tʳaða
red	tʳalawati
penis	tʳay
green	tʳææni
blood	tʳelimi
head	tʳoka
lagoon	tʳokanwi
end	tʳoka-tʳoka
urine	tʳu
ant	tʳya
intestines	βaði
again	βama
long	βaɽaka
right	βati
south	βat̪a
goodbye	βaw
go down	βiini
slippery	βɽeʔe-βɽeʔe
vagina	βɽiʔi
smoke	βüɽu
dust	βüyi
milkwood	βwaᶁi
brains	βwe
dream	βweeni
die	βwi
ear	waʔa
hat	walapanu
flat	waɽa
old	wat̪ayi
dive	wat̪i
big	weeɣe
cry	wimɽigeɽa
scratch	winiga
spotted	winimi
frilled-neck lizard	wuɣulabi
tomorrow	wuŋat̪imɽi
house	wuƫi
centipede	yaɣara
small	yarat̪a
wind	yeᶁi
turkey	yibat̪i
loggerhead turtle	yuᶁi
cook	yumu
vomit	ʒeni
blow	ʒi
fly	ʒoɣa
lily	ʒuʔu
