female	yet
road	pit
Sunday	domingo
fat	will
flower	sel
water	pal
basket	neat
I	ne-
house	kish
mortar	paal
fire	kut
coal	tull
not	kille
yes	hee
mouth	tamal
three	pah
meat	kaarne
leaf	palat
deer	sukat
horned owl	muut
bobcat	tukut
genus	tutut
cradle	siat
grass	samat
prickly pear	navet
cottontail	tavut
grass	suul
shaman	puul
bow	hul
tea	chah
plural	hem-
tule	pangat
no	ki'i
bush	sewel
his	he-
cholla	mutal
here	'ipa
there	penga
one	suplli
two	wih
four	wichiw
five	namaqwanang
man	naxanish
woman	ñichill
person	taxliswet
child	ki'at
fish	kiyul
chuckwalla	chaxwal
bird	wikikmal
coyote	'isill
carnivore	'iswet
cat	gaatu
mountain lion	tukwet
fox	qawisish
jackrabbit	su'ish
bighorn sheep	pa'at
pronghorn	tenill
American badger	hunal
bear	hunwet
skunk	teqwel
fox	willall
crow	'alwet
agave	'amul
wild goose	'alukul
big	'amna'a
bowstring	'alxawill
orphan	'aminat
ant	'anet
sparrow	'aqnish
eagle	'aswet
wood	'atmal
creosote bush	'atukul
chokecherry	'atut
willow	'avasill
cactus	'avusill
raccoon	'ayamal
turtle	'ayill
elder	'a'aviva
fly	'a'awet
species	cha'ish
horned lizard	chalaka
holly-leaved cherry	chamish
species	chang'alangish
rib	chawa'al
sandal	chawish
mistletoe	chayal
Cupeño	chaymuat
Cupeño	chaymuka
earring	chayul
sieve	cha'al
Chemehuevi	chemewava
truth	chepevqwal
diapers	chekivel
Big Dipper	chexya'am
rattle	chichikat
nettle	chikishllam
walking stick	chiqwapi
branch	chima
species	chivnish
Mexican	chi'ash
sticker	chukal
sticker	chungal
liar	chuungish
liar	tamakeñish
small change	chuviwenet
God	dioos
candy	duulsi
boy	'eqwashmal
breeze	'eel yakish
bad	'elelqwish
ugly	'elelqwimal
bitter	'enenekat
pal	pal 'eneneka
elephant tree	kelawat 'eneneka
robber	'eyet
knowledge	'e'nanill
knows	'e'nanish
sidewinder	hahyut
shame	sunhamanill
saliva	hañal
sweathouse	hashla'il
redshanks	henil
butterfly	heveveqalet
fisherman	hewnevash
fontanel	hikusal
refugee	hingichish
qíngish	qingish hingivash
airplane	hingiwet
goodbye	hiwña
Hopi	hoopi
iodine bush	huat
back	hulul
ritual	huulvel
elderberry	hunkat
Mohave yucca	hunuvat
lower back	husill
bow and arrow	huyal
stick	huyanaxat
net	'ikat
honey mesquite	'ill
thread	'iilu
salt	'ingill
meadowlark	'isal
Cahuilla	'ivillu'at
awl	'ivish
thorn	'iwyal
nothing	'i'exish
doll	'i'ipish
afterbirth	kaalapi
pumpkin	kalavaas
hole	kapalish
saucepan	kapatmal
basket	kaputil
basket	kaputmal
horse	kavaayu
hole	kavive
boss	kawi'a
pocket	kawkunill
mesquite	kaxat
species	kayval
end	hemu
species	kechish
wood	kelawat
manzanita	kelel
soot	ke'met
lizard	killimu'at
lizard	payul
door	kimul
outside	kimungax
species	kisill
shade	kisish
wall	kiwnish
species	kukul
devil's claw	'akawat
species	'ashwet
tansy mustard	'asill
nightshade	'ayka'kal
watermelon	'estu'ish
luck	'esweerta
perennial	mechewel
wild buckwheat	hulaqal
species	ki'awet
hallucinogenic	kikesewva'al
fiesta	kewet
sore	keyish
bite	ke'al
wife	kinangill
married	kinangish
roof	kisvaxat
sleepy	kukupil
yucca	kuku'ul
deerweed	kiwat
wooden	kumal
sack	kunill
bumblebee	kungsexwet
bed	kupvel
woodpecker	kupanill
barrel cactus	kupash
throat	kuspill
ant	kuvishnill
funeral	kuyill
graveyard	kuyva'al
mesquite	ku'ash
louse	ku'al
cattail	ku'ut
cheek	qwachal
sap	qwall'it
verdin	qwasanemchiip
twin	qwaati
hawk	qwa'al
sign	qwa'isneat
written	qwai'isneill
camera	taxqwa'isneva'al
writer	qwa'isnevash
bug	qwey'eqivash
acorn	qwiñill
table	lameesa
hide	laqachill
cottonwood	lavalvanet
goose	la'la'
stranger	le'et
crazy	looku
tick	machil
stone	malal
doll	malisapish
butterfly	malmal
scorpion	manisall
evening	mavish
night	tukmiyat
fan palm	mawul
mourning dove	maxayill
baby	mayllu
corn	maays
lizard	mayxal
music	melkinill
music	melkinipish
musical instrument	melkinipi
musician	melkiniva'al
white	melkish
speak	melkishllu'vash
mesquite	menikish
moon	menill
rattlesnake	mesa'a
basket	meyenat
Sunday	miisish
Church	miisiva'al
honey	miyell
smoke	mi'at
mosquito	muhulill
sickness	mukwenet
flea	mukash
enema	taxmulill
steam	mululish
lizard	mullak
lazy	mush'ival
lizard	muvi'
yellowjacket	muxaavikat
mockingbird	mu'ikill
sumac	naqwet
ear	naqal
earwax	naqyuvisal
louse	nawillat
girl	nawishmal
old man	naxaluvel
cane	naxat
lizard	nayxal
smoke tree	naswet
hiccup	nenema'ill
coyote gourd	nexish
pumpkin	nehwet
yucca	ninill
old woman	nishlluvel
law	nu'inat
chair	ñashvel
dough	ñuchill
sand	ngachish
end	nga'a
edge	ngelelish
drink	pa'il
Catholic	paadre
paddle	pakpish
wading bird	pal vukivash
bat	palil
annual	palnat
blind	pamamall
canyon	panuwenik
yucca	panu'ul
scarf	paañu
annual	pasal
knife	pasivat
tar	pasnat
horse	pasukat
center	pasun
young	pashwelish
duck	paat
stone	patavniva'al
peacock	pavu
scrub oak	pawish
reed	paxal
reed	pahankish
morning	paayish
fog	payish
rattle	pa'ayal
rodent	pa'iwet
tule	pa'ul
paper	pepeel
dollar	peesu
comb	peyna
strawberry	pikllam
hair	piill
striped	piintu
kidney	pipiviskun
chuparosa	pisill
tobacco	pivat
rainbow	piyaxat
lizard	piy'xwal
horsefly	pi'pish
eye	puchill
roadrunner	puuish
nighthawk	pulmish
turkey	pulmiwet
elbow	puvial
locoweed	qashill
rat	qawal
echo	qawinaawish
rock	qawish
quail	qaxal
quail	qaxawet
seed	qax'a
cold	qellaka
money	qichill
ground squirrel	qingish
fingernail	salul
gum	saanat
chewing gum	saanat mishva'al
watermelon	saandiya
edible	saqapish
gourd	qaxalkut
Mexican	saavet
tortilla	sawish
willow	saxat
willow	saxamal
guts	sa'ill
head louse	sa'wal
flower	se'ish
carrying	seqwaval
sumac	selet
week	semaana
fall	seva'
yucca	sevel
unripe	sewaxill
rattlesnake	sewet
sidewinder	sewet hahyut
cook	sexwet
beggar	se'wiwet
squirrel	sikawet
grass	simut
chipmunk	sisill
pinacate beetle	siskingill
sycamore	sivill
worm	sivuyal
heart	sunill
sadness	taxsunwe'ill
desert	'eswanawet
desert	suwanawet
scorpion	suyill
star	su'wet
bark	saval
tree	tachal
mariposa lily	tallki
mockingbird	tamawet
knee	tamill
sun	tamit
sun	tamyat
medicinally	tanwivel
pot	tapa'mal
egotist	tataxil
lizard	tataxsill
creator	tavish
summer	tawpa'
year	tawpaxish
thunder	tawval
body	taxawill
relative	taxmingkik
song	taxmu'at
cave	tekish
noon	tekluvel
hawk	tekvet
home	telmekish
cicada	tachikal
dirt	temal
bush	temash
weasel	temasesket
whirlwind	tene'awka
belt	tepaqal
popcorn	teqnat
clay	tesel
quail	teseqaxal
greens	tesevel
bird	tetinat
pinyon	tevat
singular	'e-
plural	'em-
plural	chem-
kidney bean	tevinmall
name	tewal
medicine	ting'aypish
doctor	ting'ayvash
mushroom	tiwill
lizard	ti'al
wheat	triiwa'a
shoelace	tuchive
hummingbird	tuchill
knife	tukvash
lard	tupichish
beetle	tutumish
flour	tu'at
rubber	'uuli'
olla	'uuya'
chamise	'u'ut
cow	vaaka'
wing	wakat
trunk	wal'a
river	wanish
shoe	waqat
frog	waxachill
roast	wa'at
meat	wa'ish
hawk	wesanwet
egg	weevu'
rain	wewnish
pine	wexet
feather	wikill
acorn	wiwish
cactus	wiyal
shrike	wiyelelek
oak	wi'asill
oak	wi'at
grasshopper	wi'it
spider	xwalxwal
oak	tavasill
oak	i'musill
lizard	yangva'
canyon	yawaywet
wind	ya'i
mushroom	wewelpish
straight line	willa'a
flute	wiirupish
chicken	xanemuu
bean	xuull
mushroom	yulal
incense cedar	yulil
friend	'amiwoki
niece	'asis
'áchem	'ash
hollow	ching'a
basket	chipatmal
woman	nichill
brittlebush	pa'akal
