the	in
Bulgaria	Bulgaria
be	ca
one	se
one	ce
ant	azcatl
turkey	huehxolotl
cave	oztotl
blood	eztli
milpa	milli
verb	-ni
and	huan
chili pepper	chilli
chocolate	chocolatl
chili pepper	chili
sun	tonal
say	ilia
tamale	tamalli
God	Dios
clear	nahuatl
Quetzalcoatl	Quetzalcoatl
firstly	achtopa
great-grandfather	achtontli
first	achto
house	calli
excrement	cuitlatl
dog	itzcuintli
merchant	pochtecatl
where	canin
liver	elli
this	imin
Earth	tlalticpactli
mountain	tepetl
priest	teopixqui
owl	tecolotl
love	tlazohtla
paper	amatl
dove	huilotl
foot	icxitl
tomato	tomatl
tomato	xitomatl
name	tocaitl
tochtin	tochin
tochtin	tochtli
someone	aca
house	kal
cacao	cacahuatl
fish	michin
hand	maitl
tree	cuahuitl
otter	ahuitzotl
wild animal	tecuani
cloud	mixtli
alligator	cipactli
king vulture	cozcacuauhtli
stone	tetl
cougar	miztli
reed	acatl
ship	acalli
water	atl
die	miqui
death	miquiztli
head	cuaitl
war	yaoyotl
enemy	yaotl
fatherhood	tahyotl
peyote	peyotl
reputation	tenyotl
sheep	ichcatl
tamale	tamal
-ness	-yotl
mud	zoquitl
lake	atezcatl
obsidian	itztli
bird	tototl
turkey hen	totolin
staff	topilli
sheriff	topileh
hut	xahcalli
quail	zolin
cihuameh	cihuatl
inhuman	ahtlacatl
mazameh	mazatl
ink	tlilli
black	tliltic
bumblebee	xicohtli
flower	xochitl
fog	poctli
mirror	tezcatl
metal	tepoztli
toad	tamazolin
lip	tentli
beard	tentzontli
bean	yetl
old woman	ilama
arrive	ahci
fly	zayolin
desgranador	chimalli
moon	metztli
ocean	ilhuicaatl
vulva	nenetl
nopal	nohpalli
worm	ocuilin
bone	omitl
monkey	ozomahtli
butterfly	papalotl
knife	tecpatl
dwarf	tzapatl
clown	xolopihtli
seed	xinachtli
Spain	Caxtillan
Spain	Castillan
Spaniard	caxtiltecatl
snow	cepayahuitl
drum	ueuetl
sky	ilhuicatl
turtle	ayotl
old	huehueh
old	huehue
gopher	tozan
wizard	tlacatecolotl
universum	cemanahuatl
ice	cetl
Chichimec	chichimecatl
snowy egret	aztatl
pelican	atotolin
hen egg	totoltetl
people	macehualli
coyote	coyotl
wine	octli
pineapple	matzahtli
puma	cihuamiztli
cat	mizton
king	tlahtoani
soap	ahmolli
Nahuatl	nahuatlahtolli
kingdom	tlahtocayotl
state	tlatocayotl
mosquito	moyotl
snake	coatl
not	ahmo
tilma	tilmahtli
shoulder	ahcolli
day	tonalli
forever	zenca
salt	iztatl
white	iztac
testicle	atetl
lady	cihuapilli
movement	olin
skunk	epatl
sing	cuica
avocado	ahuacamolli
oak	ahuatl
surface	ixtli
epazote	epazotl
time	cahuitl
mouse	quimichin
sand	xalli
someone	acah
nowhere	ahcan
piping	acayotl
jaguar	ocelotl
heart	yollotl
bee	pipiyoli
night	yoalli
turkey vulture	tzopilotl
egg	tecciztli
Otomi	otomitl
Mixtec	mixtecatl
live	nemi
duck	canauhtli
eel	coamichin
man	tlacatl
atole	atolli
new	yancuic
spider	tocatl
throat	tozquitl
pig	pitzotl
book	amoxtli
jaguar	ozelotl
jaguarundi	cuauhmiztli
bile	chichicatl
where	campa
frog	cueyatl
Zapotec	tzapotecatl
parrot	toztli
animal	yolkatl
snake	tlilcoatl
squirrel	techalotl
sunshine	tonalmitl
lizard	cuetzpalin
alligator	acuetzpalin
buttock	tzintamalli
penis	tepolli
penis	tepulli
ill	cocoxqui
turkey	huexolotl
food	tlacualli
maize	xilotl
song	cuicatl
intestine	cuitlaxcolli
adobe	xamitl
sour	xococ
moon	meztli
right	yectli
onion	xonacatl
cheek	cantli
anthill	azcapotzalli
meat	nacatl
rain	quiyahuitl
rain	quiahuitl
tapir	tlacaxolotl
temple	teohcalli
never	aic
mat	petlatl
plate	caxitl
be	paqui
pharmacy	pahcalli
delicate	pitzahuac
skunk	yepatl
black sapote	tliltzapotl
tree frog	calatl
church	teopan
cry	choca
dove	uilotl
shoe	cactli
bug	chacalin
Algeria	Argelia
library	amoxcalli
give	maca
tamarind	tamarindo
two	ome
three	eyi
four	nahui
five	macuilli
capulin	capolin
never	aik
thorn	huitztli
sauce bowl	molcaxitl
jicama	xicamatl
sleep	kochi
weed	zacatl
maguey	metl
avocado	ahuacatl
rebozo	payo
chilate	chilatl
lodge	temazcalli
peanut	tlalcacahuatl
huipiltin	huipilli
nacatamal	nacatamalli
vegetable	quilitl
tadpole	atepocatl
xoconochtle	xoconochtli
net	matlatl
avocado tree	ahuacacuahuitl
palm tree	zoyatl
earth	tlalli
pestle	texolotl
quetzal	quetzaltototl
storage	tlapanco
pan	comalli
deer	mazanacatl
Mexica	mexihcatl
grasshopper	chapolin
mushroom	nanacatl
metlapil	metlapilli
metate	metlatl
divinity	teoyotl
left	opochtli
nit	acelli
ear	nacaztli
chair	icpalli
woman	ichpochtli
man	telpochtli
sea	hueyatl
could	cecec
horn	cuacuahuitl
skin	ehuatl
parrot	cochotl
scarlet macaw	alomeh
sleepness	cochiztli
rainbow	cozamalotl
orange	lalaxtli
macaw	alotl
girl	cihuaconetl
urine	axixtli
toilet	axixcalli
capulin	capulin
sun	tonatih
spicy	chilmolli
village	altepemaitl
citizen	altepehuah
manatee	tlacamichin
animal	xolotl
American badger	tlalcoyotl
peccary	coyametl
chili pepper	chilchotl
chimney	tlecalli
river	atoyatl
acorn	ahuatomatl
oak tree	ahuacuahuitl
opossum	tlacuachin
hot water	atotonilli
wax	xicohcuitlatl
corn smut	cuitlacochin
mescal	mexcalli
underworld	mictlan
green beans	exotl
chicken stew	totolayotl
briefs	maxtli
fang	coatlantli
four	naui
architecture	calmanaliztli
seven	chicome
six	chicuace
semen	tepolayotl
water spring	ameyalli
springwater	ameyalatl
tassel	miyahuatl
ten	mahtlactli
apple	xocotl
light	tlahuilli
pine	ocotl
heart	yolotl
vulva	tepilli
braid	malinalli
dog	izcuintli
nasal mucus	yacacuitlatl
skirt	cueitl
sleep	cochi
market	tiyanquiztli
who	aquin
Tlaxcala	Tlaxcallan
aquatic snake	acoatl
stem	quiyotl
gourd	ayohtli
Mexican hairless	xoloitzcuintli
hunter	amini
tochimej	tochi
date	zoyacapolin
writing	tlahcuilolli
purple	kamotik
on	ipan
raccoon	mapachin
sweet potato	camohtli
illness	cocoliztli
coin	tomin
piglet	lechon
quiote	mequiyotl
football	neicxitapayolhuiliztli
mombin	mazaxocotl
now	axcan
vainilla	tlilxochitl
bear	tlacamayeh
make	chihua
now	axan
ten	mahtlahtli
fontanelle	cuatl
reed	akatl
orange	lalax
pumpkin	ayojtl
prickly pear	nojpal
soap	xapo
coyote	koyotl
deer	masatl
bat	tzinacantli
pot	xoctli
salt	istatl
coati	pezohtli
crow	kakalotl
bison	cuacuauhxolotl
peach	xokotl
man	tlakatl
irrigate	toxtli
star	sitlali
avocado	auakatl
mouse	kimichi
banana	kuaxilotl
onion	xonakatl
papaya	ochonetli
cow	kuakuajye
cock	caxtil
cat	miston
cave	ostotl
spider	tokatl
armadillo	ayotochi
broom	popotl
corncob	cintli
turkey hen	totoli
honey	nectli
wildcat	zacamiztli
airplane	tepoztototl
toy	ahahuilli
sick	cocoxquetl
cockroach	xopili
drink water	atli
neck	cocotl
orange tree	lalaxcuahuitl
soda	tzopelatl
bed	tlapechtli
enter	calaqui
sapote	tzapotl
old	zozoltic
sandal	tecactli
wall	tepamitl
bean tamale	etamalli
mandarin orange	otonlalax
nine	chicnahui
red	chichiltic
green	xoxohuic
yellow	coztic
wire	tepozmecatl
sheep	ichkatl
jabiru	acacalotl
papaya	chichihualtzapotl
green	xoxoctic
orange juice	lalaxatl
loincloth	maxtlatl
owl	tekolotl
maize	tlaolli
snake	koatl
mamey	tetzontzapotl
yellow	atzapotl
tamandua	azcacoyotl
bull	cincoatl
pig	pitsotl
leg	metstli
airplane	tepostototl
train	teposkoatl
ant	askatl
heron	astatl
toad	tamasoli
jaguar	oselotl
eagle	kuajtli
white	istak
canoe	akali
vessel	teposakali
water hen	atototl
sky	iluikatl
party	iluitl
raccoon	mapach
mayate	mayatl
acamaya	acamayatl
shrimp	achacalin
blue crab	atecuicihtli
leave	cahua
fog	ayahuitl
snow	cepayahui
remember	ilnamiqui
slide	alahua
Otomi	otontlahtolli
pork	pitzonacatl
palm tree	soyatl
bamboo	otlatl
train	tepozcoatl
tequesquite	tequixquitl
drone	tepozmoyotl
pine	okotl
grass	sakatl
quetzal	ketsaltototl
flamingo	quecholtototl
orange	chilcoztic
red	chichiltik
yellow	kostik
hail	texihuitl
horse	mazanehnenqui
white sapote	cochitzapotl
eye	ixtelolo
volcano rabbit	zacatochin
zanate	tzanatl
foot	xotl
table	ahcopechtli
kinship	mecayotl
zapote	tsapotl
sugar cane	ouatl
meat	nakatl
guava	chalxokotl
horse	cahuayoh
people	tlaxcaltecatl
hail	tesiuitl
water	atzintli
dog	itzkuintli
fontanella	kuaitl
ocelot	tlalocelotl
chihuahua	techichi
Atlixco	Atlixco
rattle	ayacachtli
locust	acachatl
arrive	ahzi
oak	ahuazotl
wave	acueyotl
pronghorn	teotlalmazatl
quail	zolnacatl
snake	coanacatl
quesadilla	tlaxcalpacholli
pericon	yauhtli
sahuaro	teonochtli
coyo	pahuatl
nose	yacahtli
fungus	chahuiztli
incense	copalli
sacred fir	acxoyatl
citizen	altepetlacatl
acazanate	acatzanatl
guava	chalxocotl
white fish	amilotl
roe	amilotetl
fresh water	acecec
avocado	ahuacatli
sand	challi
song	kuikatl
rope	mekatl
weasel	cozamatl
paca	tepeitzcuintli
tayra	tepechichi
cruelty	ahtlacayotl
dog	itskuintl
liquid	atic
bug	okuili
fox	oztoatl
quexquemetl	quechquemitl
rebozo	payotl
channel	apantli
vegetable	kilitl
cow	cuacuahueh
door	caltentli
maize	tlayolli
tassel	miahuatl
subway	tepozocuilin
ship	tepozacalli
bilberry cactus	cuauhnohpalli
nandu	tlacatototl
grittiness	oceloyotl
throat	acocotl
flag	pamitl
tortilla	tlaxkal
dragonfly	zayolatl
rice	acintli
story	zazanilli
corn	zintli
rice	azintli
huepiltin	huepilli
donkey	tlamemejk
chicken	piotl
chicken	pionacatl
Tlaxcaltecan	tlaxkaltekatl
water spring	ameyal
chilaquiles	chilaquilitl
enchiladas	tlaxcalchilatl
Huasteca	Cuextecapan
knee	tlancuaitl
sing	kuika
tiger	tekuani
llama	ichcanehnenqui
ravine	atlahtli
ravine	atlauhtli
steam	pohtli
anthill	azcapuzalli
grasshopper	chapulin
piglet	pilpitzotl
mandarin orange	otonlalaxtli
Mexican pincushion	chilxocotl
hail	tezihuitl
brocket	temazatl
pulque	meoctli
red wine	tlapaloctli
mulberry	coatlanxocotl
drizzle	ahuechquiahuitl
bad	ahcualli
light	ahcoqui
scapula	ahcolchimalli
laurel	acapahtli
orchid	acatzahuitli
shadow	acahuilli
freight	acalaxtlahuilli
well	acoyohtli
Spanish	caxtillantlahtolli
rose	caxtillanxochitl
shoe	cahtli
mug	axallo
slim	cacalach
neighbour	calnahuac
banana	cuauhxilotl
guava	xaxocotl
guava	xaxocatl
musician	tlatzotzonqui
musician	tlatzotzonquetl
language	tlajtol
Spanish	kastilantlajtol
rosa	kastilanxochitl
inhale	zozomoca
salamander	kuaijiyopitsij
television	teposuejkamachiotl
tree frog	kakalatl
frog	kueyatl
quesadilla	tlaxkaltlakomokuekuepajtl
rat	kimichtetsa
pulque	meoktli
tejocote	tekojxokotl
frog	kueye
time	kauitl
cocoa	kakauatl
turkey vulture	sopilotl
zanate	sanatl
sandal	tekaktl
shoe	kaktl
wheel	malakatl
black sapote	tliltsapotl
black	tliltik
green tomato	miltomatl
sweet corn	yelotl
peas	yexotl
iron	tepostl
blood	yestl
potato	kamojtl
squash flower	ayojxochitl
bobcat	kuamiston
nut	kuatetsitsi
ear	nakastl
mushroom	nanakatl
capulin	kapuli
flamingo	kechol
chayote	chayotl
fog	ayauitl
German	alemantlahtolli
Seri	seritlahtolli
Yaqui	yaquitlahtolli
Spanish	castillantlahtolli
Latin	latintlahtolli
llama	peruichcatl
pepper tree	perucuahuitl
spaceship	citlaltepozacalli
bicycle	omalacatl
cycling	omalacapainaliztli
insight	yoliztiliztli
bed	cochpanhuaztli
pencil	tlahcuilolhuaztli
coat	huipilquemitl
light bulb	tlahuilhuaztli
famale shoe	cihuacactli
cinema	copinatlanextiloyan
foto	tlaixcopinalli
puma	mistl
condor	tzopilocuauhtli
porcupine	huitzotl
sea	ailhuicatl
bow	huitolli
leak	achapantli
delouse	acelana
often	achi miecpa
zanate	zanatl
thorn	tsopotl
fruit	tlajkuilotl
cock	kuaketsal
guava	xoxokotl
sunflower	polokatl
cigarette	tlachichinal
monkey	osomajtl
blanket	pepechtl
blanket	pepechtli
charal	michtlal
cricket	xopilij
fireside	tlekuil
shortly	achic
commander	achtontecatl
sun	tonaltsintl
ringtail	kakomistl
pencil	teconalli
color pencil	teconaltlapalli
smoke	poktl
hut	xajkal
mug	uijkol
king vulture	koskakuajtli
tree	kuajuitl
squirrel	techachalotl
one moment	achitonca
understand	ahcicama
tranquilise	ahcohuetzi
shell	atecocolli
stewpot	apaztetl
aunt	ahuitl
stewpot	tlacualcaxitl
dwarf	zapatl
poncho	cotomitl
briefs	maxtl
blue	matlaltic
blue	matlaltik
stairs	azcahuaztli
rude	ayocoxquetl
pumpkin	ayohxochitl
ayacate	ayacatl
island	ayohualtlalli
green	xoxoktik
brown	koyotik
gray	nextik
orange	chichilkostik
dark	yauik
rose	chichilistak
turkey cock	uejxolotl
zucchini	ayojtsitsi
knee	tlankua
foot	ikxitl
cock	tepuli
shoulder	ajkol
nose	yekajtsol
hair	tsontli
heat	tsonteko
mouth	kamak
toy	ajauil
rattle	imajauil
airplane	tepospatlani
car	teposuilana
guitar	tlasosonal
flaute	tlapitsal
ball	kuetlaxmijmilo
stewpot	ajpastl
right	yecmaitl
creeping false holly	xaltomatl
bell pepper	chiltomatl
chili pepper	chilacatl
sea	ueyiatl
camel	hueyinacayeh
whale	hueyimichin
hippopotamus	apitzotl
hippopotamus	pitzonehnenqui
new	yankuik
coyo	pauatl
prairie dog	motohtli
gorilla	tlacaozomahtli
dolphin	tlamichin
bison	ueyikuakuajye
big	ueyi
vanity	ueyimatilistl
highway	ueyojtl
way	ojtl
lagoon	hueyiatezcatl
bat	kimichpatlani
magpie	tsinakatl
zanate	tsanatl
axolotl	acholotl
rattle	ayakachtl
telephone	tepostlanonotsa
a little bit	achitsi
a little bit	achitzin
mamey	achilkostik
reddish	achichil
sapotilla	chicotzapotl
peach	xochipalxocotl
papaya	chichihual
guanabana	etzapotl
tejocote	texocotl
tejocote	texococuahuitl
Mapuche	mapuchetlahtolli
Zulu	zulutlahtolli
Quechua	quechuatlahtolli
Aymara	aimaratlahtolli
Yucatec Maya	yucatecatlahtolli
Mixtec	mixtecatlahtolli
Zapotec	tzapotecatlahtolli
Catalan	catalantlahtolli
Mayan	mayatlahtolli
Guarani	guaranitlahtolli
Basque	vascotlahtolli
jaguar	pilocelotl
kitty	pilmizton
puma	pilmiztli
jaguar	piltecuani
mouse	huezacotl
chincuete	tzincueitl
coyote	pilcoyotl
wolf	nexcoyotl
puppy	pilitzcuintli
lamb	pilichcatl
calf	pilcuacuahueh
tiger	huehueocelotl
panther	yohualocelotl
astronomer	tonalpohuahquetl
biznaga	huitznacatl
eye	ixtelolotl
briefs	caltzomitl
underwear	calzomitl
cold	cecic
baby	pilconetl
sloth	tlatzqui
pomegranate tree	ezxococuahuitl
lemon tree	limoncuahuitl
penguin	michtototl
rain	kiyauitl
grittiness	oseloyotl
lord	tekotl
cold	sejsek
temple	teokal
biology	yolizmatiliztli
religion	neltococayotl
politeness	nematcayotl
friendship	icniuhyotl
shyness	mauhcayotl
gray	nextic
Mexican beaded lizard	acaltetepontli
malacate	malacatl
large	ueyak
friendship	yoloihniyotl
pot	xohtli
priest	teopixquetl
shine	tlanextli
friend	yoloihni
old age	huehueyotl
bee	neczayolin
cow	cihuayulcacuacuanyo
bull	yulcacuacuanyo
fly	zahualli
elephant	hueyulcatl
lagoon	hueyatezcatl
sowing	tohtli
sowing	toctli
plain	ixtlahuatl
clover	xokoyol
comet	papalotli
damp	atoctli
skin	euatl
mazacuata	mazacoatl
iguana	cuauhcuetzpalin
alligator	zipaktli
plate	apaztli
ten	majtlaktl
five	makuil
three	yeyi
eleven	majtlaktl uan se
syrup	necpahtli
pride	atlamatiliztli
irrigate	atlahuili
hole	atlacuihuayan
diarrhea	apitzalli
rattle	ayacochtli
unbearable	ayehualiztli
noun	tlatocaxtiliztli
verb	tlachihualiztli
eleven	mahtlactli huan ce
nine	chiconahui
down	tlantsintla
down	tlantzintlah
skyscraper	hueyicalli
snow	cececatl
jicama	catzotl
puddle	zoquiatl
dinner room	tlacualoyan
hell	tetonehualoyan
flame	cuezalli
skirt	cueyeh
prince	piltlahtoani
common wood pigeon	tlacahuilotl
sapote	zapotl
Zapotec	zapotecatl
shark	cipacmichin
dust	tehtli
priest	teopixcatzin
diesel	chiatletl
Mazahua	mazahuatl
Matlazincan	matlatzincatl
German	alemantecatl
Yucatec	yucatecatl
wheat	zacacintli
bill	amatomin
corpse	micquetl
elk	cuacuauhmazatl
body	nacayotl
snail	tecilli
lung	zazanactli
bronchus	tzotzomahtli
bronchus	tzotzomapopolochtli
lung	popolochtli
trachea	tlapitzalcoatl
gymnastics	tonacayomoliniliztli
horseback riding	cahuayohyacanaliztli
swimming	tlamaneloliztli
boating	acalpainaliztli
potato	tlalcamohtli
piñon	ococintli
chipotle	chilpoctli
door	calaquiyan
virginity	ichpocayotl
humanity	tlacayotl
prudence	nezcalicayotl
pinter	tlahcuiloh
debility	cocoloyotl
swirl	almoloa
write	amoxmachi
nothing	ahmotlein
gulf	anepantlah
old paper	amazolli
forearm	ahcolmaitl
slid	alahuiztli
swirl	almololiztli
blunder	ahuilnemiliztli
smooth	alaxtic
water	almalinalpan
bathe	altia
artesian	amantecatl
write	amapohua
inmortal	ahmiquini
mist	amixtli
zucchini	ayohconetl
Czech	checotlahtolli
Russian	rusotlahtolli
Romanian	rumanotlahtolli
Bulgarian	bulgarotlahtolli
Turkish	turcotlahtolli
Italian	italianotlahtolli
Romanch	romanchetlahtolli
Mandarin chinese	mandarintlahtolli
Huichol	huitzollahtolli
Slovak	eslovacotlahtolli
Swedish	suecotlahtolli
Greek	griegotlahtolli
Portuguese	portugallahtolli
Spanish	caxtillahtolli
Norwegian	noruegotlahtolli
Lithuanian	lituanotlahtolli
Cantonese	cantontlahtolli
Korean	coreanotlahtolli
Hindi	hinditlahtolli
Nahuatl	nauatlajtol
Tepehua	tepehuahtlahtolli
Navajo	navajotlahtolli
coffe	cafetzin
foto	ixcopinalli
jar	acomitl
mug	xaloh
cloth	canahuatl
sheet	camatilmahtli
school	caltemachtiloyan
courtyard	calixpamitl
Adam's apple	zalatli
blue	yahuitl
blood	yeztli
pomegranate	yezxocotl
cucumber	tepolayohtli
chilacayote	chilacayohtli
alcohol	tleatl
chalkboard	tlahcuilolpantli
box	amacalli
backpack	xiquipilli
eraiser	tlapololoni
pensil	totolacatl
bricklayer	calchiuhquetl
sweet	tzopelic
salted	poyec
plaza	xolatl
Michoacan	michhuacatl
ware	nanauhtli
healthy	cecemeltic
frozen	cepayalli
Pole	poltecatl
Oil	techiahuacayotl
Portuguese	portugaltecatl
Popoloca	popolocatl
Jaliscan	xalixcatl
Tepehua	tepehuatl
queen	cihuatlahtoani
mayor	tequihuah
wrinkle	xolochtli
wrinkled	xolochtic
prepuce	xipintli
elephant	xolochnacayeh
rhinoceros	xolochcuacuauhyeh
fleshy	nacayeh
hip	nacayocantli
earing	nacochtli
foam	potzolli
foam	pozolli
fleshy	nakaye
dinosaur	hueyicuetzpalin
shark	zipakmichin
dolphin	chichimichin
bathroom	nealtiloyan
mercury	atepoztli
rain	quiyahuatl
swim briefs	amaxtli
pants	calzontli
earing	nacazpilolli
huarache	tecahtli
sash	ilpicatl
necklace	xochicozcatl
hat	cuatlazecahuiloni
watch	tonaltlatlamachi
glasses	tlanexixtololohtli
blue eyes	ixtelolomatlaltic
red eyes	ixtelolochichiltic
green eyes	ixteloloxoxohuic
black eyes	ixtelolotliltic
idiot	tompoxtli
punishment	tonehuiztli
smug	topalli
haughty	topalnenquetl
rush	tolin
dome	tecacalli
totomostle	totomoxtli
totomostle	totomochtli
popcorn	momochtli
turkey hen	totolnacatl
rabbit	tochnacatl
lamb	ichcanacatl
dog	itzcuinacatl
crocodile	cipacnacatl
skunt	epanacatl
sausage	nacacuitlaxcolli
mojarra	cacalomichin
fish	michnacatl
sope	tlaxcaltzopitl
pinch	tzopitl
stomach	cuitlatecontli
briefs	kaltzomitl
panties	cihuamaxtli
totopo	totopochtli
moustache	camatzontli
Pole	pollacatl
Portuguese	portugallacatl
German	alemantlacatl
Guatemalan	cuauhtemaltecatl
Spaniard	castillantecatl
Spaniard	kastiltekatl
Spaniard	kastilantlakatl
Tlaxcala	Tlaxkalan
Spain	Kastilan
lastname	tahtocamemeliztli
lastname	nantocamemeliztli
representant	teixpantiani
colony	tlahxilancalli
phone	ehcatlanonozaloni
telephone	mecatlanonozaloni
telephone	tepozmecatlanonozaloni
student	momachtiani
bussinesman	tequimacani
worker	tequitini
file	tlapohualtequitl
e-mail	caltitlaniliztlanextli
transparency	nelmelahuaztli
phone	ehecatlanonotzaloni
telephone	tepozmecatlanonotzaloni
call	nonotza
call	nonoza
nahua town	nahuaaltepetl
fungus	chauistl
rattlesnake	tepocolcoatl
snake plant	tepocolli
rattlesnake	chiauhcoatl
caterpillar	chiahuitl
serious	ixcualani
speak	tlahtoa
urine	axiliztli
be	tlahuemiqui
cantil	zolcoatl
nasal mucus	yacahcuitlatl
dragonfly	apipiyallotl
peacock	quetzalhuehxolotl
peacock	quetzaltotolin
chichicua	chichicoatl
coral	pichicoatl
coralillo	xochicoatl
green cantil	cochocoatl
boa	mecacoatl
nauyaca	nauhyacatl
coral	cozcacoatl
reptilian	tlacacoatl
cosmic man	teotlacatl
mermaid	cihuamichtli
pubis	tepoltzontli
lung	chichitl
ass	kuijchil
nalga	tsinte
bely	ijte
matraca	totopoka
drum	kuajtampol
top	kuatelolo
arc	tlatsteminal
jug	tsotsokol
mirrow	teskatl
comb	tsekauastl
brush	xeluastl
bleach	mekoatl
jícara	xikal
glass	pisteuilotl
glass	teuilotl
pot	komitl
plate	pelkaxitl
handkerchief	tlaxkalpayo
chair	ikpal
dining room	tlapechtlakualis
spoon	tlakualteka
molcajete	chiltekaxitl
tejolote	temolotl
table	ajkopechtl
notebook	amatlajkuilol
book	amox
pencil	kuajtlajkuilol
chalk	tenextlajkuilol
teacher	temachtijk
mole	tlilmol
mole	tlemol
weading	namiktilis
mole	texmol
wheel	tlayeualotl
church	teopantsintl
hall	kaltiachka
hospital	kaltepajtilis
school	kaltlamachtijk
store	kaltlanemakal
internet	matlatsalan
internet	matlatzalan
reading	amapohualiztli
sink	apolactia
suddenly	atenemachpan
oyster	atepolcatl
foolishness	aquimamatcayotl
sterile	apilhuac
pearl	apetztli
flood	apachihui
nevermore	aocmo
can	anihueliti
vein	ezcocolli
saliva	chihchalli
sleep	ixcuitlatl
earwax	nacazcuitlatl
leg	cotztamalli
melt	atilia
corrupt	ahtlacayeni
irrigation	atlahuilli
bucket	atlacuihuani
wall	calihxitl
peine	tzecahuaztli
arrive	hualla
arrive	huala
Popoloca	popolocatlahtolli
Totonac	totonacatlahtolli
Mazahua	mazahuatlahtolli
Tlahuica	ocuiltecatlahtolli
Matlatzinca	matlatzincatlahtolli
Lao	laotlahtolli
Sicilian	sicilianotlahtolli
Ladin	ladinotlahtolli
Asturian	asturianotlahtolli
Purhepecha	michhuacatlahtolli
Kurdish	kurdotlahtolli
Malagasy	malgachetlahtolli
Tzotzil	tzotzillahtolli
Tzeltal	tzeltallahtolli
Wastek	cuextecatlahtolli
Pima	pimatlahtolli
Mexican	mexihcatlahtolli
Lipan	lipantlahtolli
Ukrainian	ucranianotlahtolli
tree frog	xoxocalatl
volcano	tletepetl
canoe	acal·li
cup	cacaxiton
spicy	chilmamolli
muffler	tlazehuani
chimney	popocalquizani
telephone	tepozmecatlanonotzqui
facade	calixcuaitl
table	tlapechtlacualli
car	tepozcalnehnenqui
patio	calixpan
kitchen	tlacualnemacoyan
restaurant	caltlacualnemacoyan
pool	atecaxmatemaloyan
spoon	matlacualxopiloni
honey	neuhtli
alcohol	tlapehqui
knife	tlatequini
home	tenamaztetl
lavandería	tlapacaloyan
urogallo	cuauhcaxtil
raspador	tlahchiquini
aguamiel	neuhmetl
garden	xochicollan
chair	ihpalli
floor	tlalpan
window	ixcalli
hotel	cochihualoyan
techo	cuatlatzacualcalli
sofa	tzinihpalli
teeth brush	tlantzecahuaztli
quexquemetl	quechtlahzoc
mezote	mezotl
tlachiquero	tlachiuhquini
tlachiquero	tlachiuhquetl
bedroom	cochihuayan
large	calixatl
gardener	xochipixquetl
corn	centli
epazote	yepazotl
glass	tlahuantli
bus	calmimilolli
raccoon	mapachtli
plait	cuatzontli
boulder	tepexitl
lapis lazuli	texohtli
start	peuhcayotl
