building	kali
lemon	limo
you	ta
I	na
one	se
eagle	liklik
with	ika
elephant	elefante
twist	malina
father	tata
mother	nana
small	achi
give	maka
short	makoto
dinosaur	dinosaurio
chile	chili
giraffe	jirafa
dog	chichi
bible	biblia
poncho	koto
and	uan
coyo	paua
lizard	topi
ice	setl
gato	misto
mountain	tepetl
parrot	kocho
peper	amatl
tomato	tomatl
hand	maitl
mole	tosa
city	altepetl
cloud	mixtli
stone	tetl
God	teotl
water	atl
soldier	yaotl
peyote	peyotl
bird	tototl
flower	xochitl
bean	etl
bone	omitl
butterfly	papalotl
drum	ueuetl
turtle	ayotl
wine	uino
year	xiuitl
mosquito	moyotl
parrot	kili
eat	kua
skunk	epatl
Miss	nane
Otomi	otomitl
sun	tonati
god mother	tiona
sir	tate
hungry	mayana
maize	xilotl
sweet corn	xamitl
fly	patlani
church	teopan
peach	tolas
divide	xelo
two	ome
three	eyi
pitahaya	chacha
lemon	lemoj
melon	meloj
die	miki
infect	maua
quesadilla	pompoj
sleep	kochi
pulque	metl
shelled corncob	olotl
ear	elotl
ayate	ayatl
milk	lechi
urinate	maxixa
naked	xolotl
Northern Cardinal	chiltototl
green bean	exotl
four	naui
butter	chichiualayotl
heart	yolotl
turkey	palach
heart	yolo
work	tekiti
moon	metzti
Nahuan	nauatl
good	kuali
cry	choka
vainilla	tlilxochitl
man	tacat
wind	ajakatl
reed	akatl
ringtail	kakomixtli
orange	lalax
soap	xapo
mestizo	koyotl
deer	masatl
scorpion	kolotl
sand	xali
salt	istatl
crow	kakalotl
puma	mistli
citric	xokotl
man	tlakatl
woman	siuatl
alligator	aketspali
woman	sihuat
squash	eyojti
prickly pear	nejpali
land	tlali
bat	tsotso
star	sitlali
avocado	auakatl
mouse	kimichi
penis	tepoli
clothing	yoyomitl
guava	chalchokotl
pot	chachapali
banana	kuaxilotl
pineapple	matsajtli
pineapple	matsaktli
watermelon	ualeya
papaya	ochonijtli
onion	xonakatl
papaya	ochonetli
ear	nakastli
cave	ostotl
spider	tokatl
Huasteca	Kuextekapaj
Mexico	Mexko tlali
city	altepet
corn	sintli
turkey	totoli
animal	tlapiyali
tobacco	iyatl
blood	estli
cockroach	xopepe
raccoon	mapachi
bean tamale	etamali
dragonfly	apipiyalotl
grasshopper	chapoli
pumpkin	ayojtli
ant	tsikatl
cow	uakax
prawn	chakalij
ant	tsitsitl
tamale	tamali
atole	atoli
orange juice	lalaxatl
desert shrup	kopali
peccary	koapitsotl
pig	pitsotl
frog	kalatl
moon	metstli
airplane	tepostototl
train	teposkoatl
wire	teposmekatl
metal	tepostli
heron	astatl
toad	tamasoli
arm	ajkoli
rainbow	akasamalotl
snow	sepayauitl
fly	sayoli
tortilla	tlaxkali
ant	axkaneli
jaguar	oselotl
sea	ueyatl
white	istak
toy	ajauili
canoe	akali
vessel	teposakali
seed	achtli
book	amochtli
shrimp	achakalij
lake	ateskatl
heron	atototl
pelican	atotoli
sky	iluikatl
party	iluitl
pig	pitso
palm tree	soyatl
tongue	nenepili
pine	okotl
monkey	osomajtli
puma	koamistli
kinkajou	koachichi
zacahuil	sakauli
weed	sakatl
avocado tree	auakakoauitl
tree	koauitl
poem	xochitlajtoli
catfish	xolomichij
fish	michij
whale	ueyimichij
parrotfish	kochomichij
horn	kuakuaj
car	teposkauayo
louse	atimitl
lizard	axilij
milk	lechij
egg	tejsistli
mud	sokitl
breast	chichiuali
bull snake	sinkoatl
ice cream	asetl
bumblebee	xikojtli
white	chipauak
red	chichiltik
yellow	kostik
turquoise	xoxouak
green	xoxouik
pink	achichiltik
brown	chokolatik
black	yayauik
grey	tenextik
skirt	kueyitl
heart	yoltsij
crab	xilij
hummingbird	uitsitsilij
zopilote	tsopilotl
zopilote	tsojmi
zapote	tsapotl
charcoal	tlikoli
world	tlaltikpaktli
bible	teoamochtli
gold	teokuitlaxochitl
star	sitlalij
naked	pepestik
iguana	osouijtli
sugar cane	ouatl
meat	nakatl
hole	motsoli
century plant	mexkali
moon	meetstli
tall	lalakatik
sun	tonatij
pineapple	matsojtli
baby girl	siuakonetl
underwear	kaltsomitl
jicama	kaltsotl
glasses	ixteskatl
umbrella	ekauiloni
wasp	etsatl
basquet	achikiuitl
make	achiua
want	achiyok
flower	akaxochitl
flute cane	akatlapitsali
stairs	akauastli
tasty	ajuiyak
spiced	ajuiyatik
dew	ajuechtli
itch	ajuayotl
naked coral flower	pemoch
naked coral tree	pemochkoauitl
pot	chachapale
toad	tamasule
toad	tamasole
basquet	chikiuitl
bowl	chilkaxitl
orange	chilkostik
tick	chipojtli
snail	chololo
rib	elchiki
armpit	elaj
hail	tesiuitl
barb	tentso
chalk	tisatl
shield	chimali
mouth	kamaktli
sour	xokoatoli
sour	xokok
orange seed	xokoyali
wet	xolentok
onion sowing	xonakamili
orange	xokoatl
stinking	xokiyak
toe	xojpili
flowery	xochiyo
flowery	xochitini
gardener	xochipixketl
necklace	xochikostli
flower water	xochiatl
kick	xopeua
night	youali
nose	yakatsoli
soft	yamanik
bean	etixtli
ant	axkanali
girl	siuapil
reading	amapoualistli
stationery	amakalko
slippery	alauak
jonote	alauajtli
bill	amatomij
handkerschief	amatlaxkalyoyomitl
green	xoxojtik
blue	asultik
bag	xikipili
bad	axkuali
bile	chichikatl
cheek	kampamitl
song	kuikatl
hunger	mayantli
rope	mekatl
nacatamal	nakatamali
combat	nekalilistli
unity	setilistli
quail	tepesoli
working	tekitl
gold	teokuitlatl
colour	tlapali
thank	tlaxkamati
musician	tlatsontsonketl
maize	tlayoli
goodbye	asta mostlaj
church	teokali
cedar	teokouitl
godson	teokonetl
godfather	teotajtli
teponaztli	teponastli
church	teopamitl
hospital	tepajtiloya
god words	teotlajtoli
market	tiankistli
word	tlajtoli
man	okixtli
way	ojtli
peccary	koapitso
otate	ojtatl
light	tlauili
bug	okuili
sweet potato	kamojtli
boy	okixpil
medicine	pajtli
baker	panchiketl
flag	pantli
mat	petatl
coati	pesojtli
sour	chichik
scabies	chichilsauatl
chayote	chayotli
epazote	apasotl
vegetable	kilitl
nandu	tlakatototl
Nahuatl	nauatlajtoli
German	alemántlajtoli
English	ingléstlajtoli
French	francéstlajtoli
Spanish	kaxtilantlajtoli
flag	pamitl
sickness	kokolistli
face	xayaktli
bladder	axixteko
Mexico State	Mexkotlatokajyotl
Spain	Kaxtilan
state	tlatokajyotl
Spanish	kaxtiltekatlajtoli
Russian	rusotlajtoli
Arabic	árabetlajtoli
Chinese	chinotlajtoli
Lithuanian	lituanotlajtoli
Romanian	rumanotlajtoli
Italian	italianotlajtoli
Otomi	otontlajtoli
Wastek	kuextekatlajtoli
Yucatec Maya	yukatekatlajtoli
Spaniard	kaxtiltekatl
Wastek	kuextekatl
Yucatec	yukatekatl
Mexican	mexikatl
Tlaxcaltecan	tlaxkaltekatl
Huejutla	Uexota
Atlapexco	Atlapechko
Xochiatipan	Xochiatipan
orange tree	lalaxkoauitl
cherry	apolij
sapodilla	chikojtsapotl
anona	kokax
mamey	koatsapotl
jobo	tamaxokotl
tejocote	texokotl
grapes	xokomekatl
date	soyaapolij
Latin	latíntlajtoli
Esperanto	esperantotlajtoli
Mazahua	masauajtlajtoli
Purhepecha	purépechatlajtoli
Tepehua	tepeuajtlajtoli
sing	kuika
leg	mestli
photographer	ixkopinalketl
image	ixkopinali
sugar	chanchaka
amaranth	uajtli
lemon tree	limokoauitl
feather	ijuitl
eye	ixtioli
peanut	kakauatl
letter	matlajkuiloli
bag	matatl
pineapple	matsatli
sport	mauiltilistli
arm	maueueyak
knowledge	matilistli
person	maseuali
protect	manoui
crawl	manenentli
disordered	maneltik
bathe	maltia
finger	majpili
cockroach	xopilij
last son	xokoyotl
pumpkin	eyojtli
round	malakaxtik
macuilxochitl	makuilxochitl
one hundred	makuilpoali
five	makuili
six	chikuase
seven	chikome
nine	chiknaui
eight	chikueyi
ten	matlaktli
sprout	chamantli
rattle	ayakachtli
ajocote	axokotl
chalahuite	chalauitli
fuel	chapopojtli
shit	kuitla
shit	kuitlatl
sweet corn	xamili
church	tiopan
coconut	kokox
creeping false holly	xaltomatl
tomato	xijtomatl
fruit	koatlajtli
chayote	koatlajkayotl
yuca	akaxilotl
chalahuite	chalauijtli
jicama	kajtsotl
pumpkin	ayoktli
pummkin	eyoktli
bad	yankuik
rain	kiyauitl
mazacuata	masakoatl
meat	pionakatl
sister-in-low	uejpol
god father	tiota
grand mother	ueyinana
grand father	ueyitata
neibor	uampo
sesame	ajoli
comal	komali
nixtamal	nextamali
uncle	tlatsi
aunt	aui
brother	ikni
sister	uelti
god son	tiokone
god	siuatiokone
baby boy	okixkonetl
turkey hen	siuatotoli
stewpot	kaxitl
loosen	kaxani
rebozo	maamali
cousin	machkonetl
five	makuilpa
pardon	makixtli
fright	majmajtli
hit	makili
make	tlaxkalchiua
plant	toktli
horse	kauayoj
archive	amatlajkuiloli
testament	amatlajtoli
lollipop	paletaj
restaurant	tlakualoya
food	tlakuali
tramp	tlakestli
blanket	tlakemitl
potato	tlalkamojtli
ice cream	lalaxasetl
ice cream	chokolasetl
cock	koatele
eleven	matlaktli uan se
twelve	matlaktli uan ome
thirteen	matlaktli uan eyi
fourteen	matlaktli uan naui
fifteen	kaxtoli
sixteen	kaxtoli uan se
seventeen	kaxtoli uan ome
nineteen	kaxtoli uan naui
eighteen	kaxtoli uan eyi
twenty	sempoali
Japanese	japonéstlajtoli
Mayan	mayatlahtoli
K'ich'e	kichétlajtoli
Bribri	bribritlajtoli
Navajo	navajotlajtoli
Zulu	zulutlajtoli
Guarani	guaranítlajtoli
Romanch	romanchetlajtoli
Kuna	kunatlajtoli
Aymara	aimaratlajtoli
Hebrew	hebreotlajtoli
Mexican	mexikatlajtoli
Norwegian	noruegotlajtoli
Chinese	mandaríntlajtoli
Swahili	suajilitlajtoli
Portuguese	portuguéstlajtoli
sugar cane	tleatl
sucar cane	ouaatl
coffee	kafej
sweet corn	eloatoli
Kickapoo	kikapútlajtoli
Paipai	paipaitlajtoli
ass	tsimitl
buttock	tsimpa
gum	tsiktli
coral snake	tsikatenaj
rattlesnake	kuechkoatl
turtle	koxualij
demon	tsitsimitl
feisty	tlauilanketl
hair	tsonkali
pillow	tsontetomitl
hat	tsonakauili
hat	tsonakauilotl
Dutch	neerlandéstlajtoli
Tlaxcala	Tlaxkala
jobo	koaxokotl
plump	temaxokotl
watermelon	ualeyaj
cricket	tsitsikamitl
flea	tejpimitl
tarantula	yoltekuajkuajtli
beetle	kuitlatsokoyoli
lizard	topitsij
bee	nejsayoli
tilcuata	tlilkoatl
palm snake	apachkoatl
chayote	chayojtli
expensive	patiyoj
bread	pantsij
liquor	oktli
nylon	olij
fermented	oktik
sick	kokoxketl
country	ueyitlali
municipality	altepetlali
transport	ojtilistli
corn smut	kuitlakochi
traveler	nejnenketl
history	uajkapayotl
Marygold	sempoualxochitl
tilapia	chompetlatl
root	neluayotl
accept	neltoka
religion	neltokilistli
limestone	nextetl
brush	xiluastli
jicalpestle	xikali
navel	xijtli
umbilical cord	xijmekayotl
crispy	xaxantik
excavate	xaua
owl	tololojtli
duck	patex
turtle	sokijayotl
president	tlanauatiketl
alphabet	tlajkuilopamitl
humanity	tlakayotl
nopal	nojpali
