mushroom	sana
feces	tea
jaw	sanoa
fence	vera
eye	nia
taro	noha
salt	misa
war	nana
father	amo
needle	sima
size	mina
body	haha
pocketknife	paia
ant	siria
scabies	asia
stone	muna
house	ara
chili pepper	chiri
fire	vena
pig	maha
water	toa
book	buka
cockatoo	saja
sago	atua
bird	uka
snake	tapara
nose ornament	eja
shade	niha
edible bamboo shoot	pua
breast	musa
easy	samaa
fist	haisi
tide	saa
tail	vina
flour	harava
bubble	sapa
enemy	naka
sun	vea
cat	pusia
spider	putata
saliva	richa
worm	soa
teacher	tisa
axe	taupa
cheek	noa
chain	senia
day after tomorrow	nitui
type	anaka
mud	saina
chewing gum	fike
saliva	chera
odor	amua
waterfall	ahura
sand	ajara
ball	ahua
step	siasa
hole	uha
yam	ahaja
moon	masapa
cockroach	tiria
betel nut	siara
rain	neha
caterpillar	kutitia
mosquito net	tainimoa
kerosene lamp	naheha
island	mutumutua
insect	mutaka
millipede	mukuapa
tongue	mitara
navel	misipa
plate	minikia
turtle	mataputia
wallaby	sohana
leftover	sivata
bone marrow	sirura
shoulder blade	sirevisa
shoulder	sireha
sheep	sipia
cucumber	sipara
flower	sinara
earthworm	simira
betel nut juice	simarita
lemon	sihorua
spoon	sihunia
bean	siaasa
bamboo	sarera
tree kangaroo	sapesapea
wart	sapamutia
radio	rejuroa
clothesline	raini
Jew's harp	pupuaka
button	pitopitoa
drill	pirumanaa
perspiration	piropa
meat	piraka
bad odor	pinapi
plant	pimejo
walking stick	pijuaha
blanket	parakisi
airplane	paraimisia
bandage	panesia
tooth	opaja
onion	oneonea
necklace	onecha
sweetheart	ojino
parent	ohoma
hornbill	nupura
neckbone	nuamuka
face	niura
needle	nitirua
tomorrow	niari
married man	napasina
boss	namikia
molar	nakoha
mountain range	nahara
motorbike	mutubaikia
foot	momora
milk	miroki
rocky	minuaka
sticky	matiho
bamboo	marora
always	marisi
innocent	mamaha
paper	heha
hill	hareha
coconut	haraja
file	hairia
pineapple	hainihoa
goosebump	hahoma
airplane	firini
bow	feva
flag	faragi
bachelor	etara
helicopter	erikofita
grave	earoa
wild duck	chuapa
root	chinuma
clavicle	chahata
bullet	burutua
shoe	butia
bottle	butorua
bomb	bomua
belt	birotia
bucket	baketa
thin	avava
knee	atoka
back	atavaraha
roof	atahura
ear	ataa
backyard	arutora
middle finger	arihunina
pimple	apasoa
rainbow	anuaka
handcuffs	anikuroa
widow	amuna
handkerchief	akisia
adze	airia
bamboo shoot	vumatia
lap	vuana
fingernail	vuaka
mourning song	virisia
bone	variapata
vagina	vajua
type	vajaka
shame	vahia
smell	utira
mushroom	usiha
type	usesa
end	urunama
hip bone	uriuriha
bird trap	upuara
wedge	upia
onion	uneunea
bead	unecha
foot	umora
nasal secretion	uchuha
somersault	uatitia
mango	turipa
heart	turipua
typewriter	tureturea
comb	tovaria
water leech	totupana
dragonfly	tosisivura
driver	toreva
bamboo container	toata
replacement	tiruhuna
prison	tipura
stool	tatemua
flying fox	ahini’ora
heavy	ahinimo
burden	ahija
larger portion	ahesa
water rat	’achimina
itchy	achichimo
mouse	’achia
eel	’achapa
branch	achaha
property	aachi’a
wild betel nut	a’acha
tin	’ajani
termite	ajani paranaha
riverbank	’ajataka
cane	ajiaka
uncle	’ajuha
crosswise	akarekara
left hand	ana’ina
grasshopper	’anata
owner	anesura
honey	ane’ura
branch	anuama
troublemaker	anumejuora
buttocks	’apa
daughter	’apaja
millipede	apeni’ora
backyard	apiruna
treebark	apopa
forked branch	’araha
always	arisi
shaman	asisa’ina
earwax	ataa sakaha
earring	’aunua
