June	June
scar	we
but	ia
sugar	suka
one	dua
ring	mama
garden	were
child	gone
up	cake
sign	mana
I	au
eat	kana
bad	ca
tea	ti
grass	co
only	ga
flower	se
stand	tu
dead	mate
carry	cola
fish	ika
beverage	qona
authority	lewa
oyster	dio
alocasia	via
oar	voce
fly	lago
bird	manu
sky	lagi
back	daku
noni	kura
moss	lumi
inside	loma
vein	ua
vomit	lua
eat	kani
house	vale
snake	gata
booty	toki
they	ira
water	wai
root	vu
wound	vue
four	va
thigh	saga
five	lima
pus	nana
owl	lulu
often	soma
in	mai
coast	tai
path	sala
root	waka
to	ki
head	ulu
after	muri
bone	sui
tooth	bati
frog	boto
sight	rai
forbidden	tabu
little island	kahalauaola
mat	ibe
two	rua
liver	yate
face	mata
big	levu
hello	bula
island	yanuyanu
bathe	sili
beautiful	totoka
want	vinakata
bull	tamanibulumakau
tree	kau
inspect	digo
chin	kumi
May	May
therein	kina
torch	cina
shrimp	ura
ray	vai
fan	iri
town	koro
bicycle	basikeli
buy	voli
lady	marama
hand	liga
knee	duru
father	tama
trunk	uma
touch	tara
knife	sele
shelf	vata
thunder	kuru
scrape	kari
bag	taga
impatient	sosa
horse	ose
day	siga
shoot	vana
disappear	kino
stone	vatu
fowl	toa
fire	buka
answer	kaya
un-	tawa
color	roka
coconut	niu
hear	rogo
lizard	moko
mother	tina
night	bogi
skin	kuli
flesh	lewe
what	cava
yam	uvi
mangrove	dogo
mosquito	namu
sea	wasa
south	ceva
louse	kutu
maggot	ulo
error	cala
finish	oti
monarch	ratu
chop	tā
nail	kuku
dig	keri
new	vou
sea turtle	vonu
cut	mudu
rain	uca
nose	ucu
land	vanua
poison	duva
dove	ruve
Barringtonia	vutu
cowrie	buli
sibling	taci
sugar cane	dovu
rope	dali
grow	tubu
cry	tagi
fruit	vua
red	damu
land	kaivalagi
measurement	caga
forehead	yadre
leaf	drau
they	rau
hill	buke
speech	vosa
fog	kabu
nit	lise
navel	vico
tame	lasa
foam	vuso
raw	koda
spouse	wati
waterfall	savu
gut	wawa
king	tui
truth	dina
sailor	mua
eel	duna
butterfly	bebe
refuse	bese
hate	cata
flow	sali
letter	vola
cloud	ō
whale	tavuto
sheet	siti
mathematics	fika
hour	aua
sand	nuku
octopus	kuita
cat	pusi
coast	baravi
ten	tini
war	valu
sheep	sipi
religion	lotu
cruise	soko
very	sara
net	lawa
traditional Fijian drinking vessel	saqamoli
astray	sese
creep	dolo
downward	kira
kava	yaqona
taro	dalo
Aboriginal Fijian	kaiviti
dog	koli
afloat	nawa
bat	beka
you	iko
cake	keke
meeting	bose
buy	volia
disappear	kibo
shoe	vava
female	alewa
indifference	wele
atonement	soro
he	koya
skim	malolo
seasick	loloa
wai ni mata	wai ni mata
do	caka
balcony	varada
often	wasoma
mantrap	soki
twenty	ruasagavulu
eleven	tini ka dua
twelve	tini ka rua
thirteen	tini ka tolu
fourteen	tini ka va
fifteen	tini ka lima
sixteen	tini ka ono
seventeen	tini ka vitu
eighteen	tini ka walu
nineteen	tini ka ciwa
creep	yaqa
heart	uto
banana	vudi
crawl	qasi
wind	cagi
shark	qio
thirty	tolusagavulu
forty	vasagavulu
fifty	limasagavulu
sixty	onosagavulu
seventy	vitusagavulu
eighty	walusagavulu
ninety	ciwasagavulu
twenty-one	ruasagavulu ka dua
twenty-two	ruasagavulu ka rua
twenty-three	ruasagavulu ka tolu
twenty-four	ruasagavulu ka va
twenty-five	ruasagavulu ka lima
twenty-six	ruasagavulu ka ono
twenty-seven	ruasagavulu ka vitu
twenty-eight	ruasagavulu ka walu
twenty-nine	ruasagavulu ka ciwa
thirty-one	tolusagavulu ka dua
thirty-two	tolusagavulu ka rua
thirty-three	tolusagavulu ka tolu
thirty-four	tolusagavulu ka va
thirty-five	tolusagavulu ka lima
thirty-six	tolusagavulu ka ono
thirty-seven	tolusagavulu ka vitu
thirty-eight	tolusagavulu ka walu
thirty-nine	tolusagavulu ka ciwa
forty-one	vasagavulu ka dua
forty-two	vasagavulu ka rua
forty-three	vasagavulu ka tolu
forty-four	vasagavulu ka va
forty-five	vasagavulu ka lima
forty-six	vasagavulu ka ono
forty-seven	vasagavulu ka vitu
forty-eight	vasagavulu ka walu
forty-nine	vasagavulu ka ciwa
Monday	siga Monite
Tuesday	siga Tusite
Wednesday	siga Vukelulu
Thursday	siga Lotulevu
Friday	siga Vakaraubuka
Saturday	siga Vakarauwai
Sunday	Siga Tabu
pig	vuaka
Fijian	Na Vosa Vakaviti
eyebrow	vacu
soap	sovu
hotel	otela
January	Janueri
February	Veverueri
March	Maji
April	Epereli
July	Jiulai
August	Okosita
September	Seviteba
October	Okotova
November	Noveba
December	Tiseba
foot	yava
hidden	vuni
rainbow	drodrolagi
unhappiness	rarawa
ant	qasikalolo
bed	imocemoce
bed	idavodavo
white	vavalagi
dress	vinivo
backpack	idrekedreke
chair	idabedabe
graveyard	ibulubulu
cave	qaravatu
bottle	tavaya
cabbage	kaveti
needle	eula
candle	kadrala
carrot	kareti
car	motoka
land	qele
hear	rogoca
flower	senikau
rat	kalavo
