zero	balan
ear	manga
container	wal
hip	baa
five	maa
lean	bana
ear	bina
kangaroo	bandaarr
wallaby	wan'guy
possum	muthay
dog	buruma
dingo	marayin
echidna	bigibila
horse	yarraaman
cow	milambaraay
sheep	thimba
cat	burrgiyan
pig	biguun
turtle	waraba
lizard	gumuuma
lizard	thalagal
lizard	balawagarr
sleepy	wurumal
goanna	yurrandaali
goanna	thulii
snake	nhurraay
snake	nhiibi
snake	ngandabaa
snake	gali-balalaa
carpet snake	yabaa
eye	mil
fork	gula
message stick	maang
wine	gaga
burr	bindayaa
kookaburra	gugurrgaagaa
aboriginal	mari
testicles	buu
you	nginda
dirty	bandu
budgerigar	gijirrigaa
mistletoe	baan
liver	gana
one	maal
tree	thulu
sun	yaraay
girl	miyay
bone	bura
wedge-tailed eagle	mullion
ball	buru
cloud	yuru
moon	gilay
blanket	djaagari
blanket	bulanggi
honey	warrul
emu	thinawan
sleep	baabili
fire	wii
chest	biri
silent	malu
nose	muru
verily	giirr
pademelon	wan.guy
head	gawugaa
Kamilaroi	Gamilaraay
mouth	ngaay
fish	guya
health	banaba
heart	gii
excrement	guna
hand	mara
river	bagaay
having	-baraay
earth	thawun
budgerigar	gidjirrigaa
water	gali
flood	wuguu
soft	mula
koala	guda
food	yuul
dingo	mirri
foot	thina
tongue	thalay
tooth	yira
all	ganu
mosquito	mungin
what	minya
dingo	ngurran
thigh	tharra
breastmilk	ngamu
gun	marrgin
wedge-tailed eagle	maliyan
bottom	murru
colour	gagan
brolga	burralga
dust	yuu
thigh	dharra
glasses	mila
relative	ila
shadow	guramun
I	ngaya
face	ngulu
book	nguu
red kangaroo	bawurra
bird	thigaraa
pelican	guliyaali
mother	guni
beard	yarray
nail	yulu
echidna	maRawal
emu	dhinawan
uncle	garruu
river	baga
maternal grandmother	waabi
sheep	yaray
gum tree	yarraan
yes	yawu
yes	ngaa
full	yuularaay
urine	giili
blood	guway
rib	dharrarr
ribs	tharrarr
penis	dhun
penis	thun
white	wadjiin
stone	yuundu
hungry	yuulngin
track	yurruun
scar	yurrun
scrub	yurrul
alcohol	yurraamu
rainbow	yuluwirri
play	yulugi
skin	yulay
tie up	yulaali
song	yugal
cry	yugi
mopoke	yithiyan
tired	yinggil
Aboriginal	yinarr
long	yilambu
now	yilaathu
soon	yila
marriage class	yibatha
strange	ngibaay
who	ngaana
cockatoo	ngaanbanaa
marriage class	yibaay
berry	yawurr
sharp	yathala
down	yathaarr
stone	yarrul
grub	yarrangan
vagina	yanggal
go	yanay
old woman	yambuli
old woman	yambi
anus	nyii
new	nhuubala
pants	tharrawurra
hundred	barriga
two	bulaarr
boomerang	barran
salt	dhal
room	ngana
tear	yuga
fence	badi
mulga	malga
well	maaru
cup	gaala
hard	bamba
clothes	baya
pool	mayan
snake	gay
be	gigi
all right	gaba
lung	gaban
body hair	budhi
lump	gulu
river	bagay
hey	nga
meat	dhii
leg	buyu
biceps	buba
white	wanda
bubaa	-gu
menstruation	malagan
mad	wamba
dead	balu
sad	badha
cheek	dhaal
pendant	waa
marriage class	matha
leg	dhina
door	girrinil
pen	wiyayl
bottle	baadhal
quoll	bagandi
nose	muyu
sister	baawaa
grandmother	badhii
god	baayami
semen	barabin
run	banagay
look	ngamili
eat	dhali
hunt	maniilay
swim	gubiy
sing	bawili
spirit	Yuurrila
shut	muwili
taste	dhadhali
maternal grandmother	baagii
tree	dhulu
sheep	dhimba
bird	dhigaraa
spirit	Milaygiin
earth	dhawun
pants	dharrawurra
eight	galay
horsefly	baanduu
egg	gawu
backbone	guriya
slowly	guraay
niece	gunugayngaa
weekend	miyaa
mother	gunii
father	bubaa
grandfather	dhaadhaa
brother	dhagaan
seagull	maanggiiwarraywarraymal
cousin	wambanhiiya
frog	yurayaa
snake	dhuru
tail	dhiil
sweets	guwiirra
striped	bagabaga
mouse	dhindu
birth	wadhaagudjaaylwan
hear	winangali
speak	garay guwaali
word	garay
sorry	madja
my	ngay
dry	balal
bad	gagil
sore	bayn
out of place	walingay
shiny	ngandanganda
comb	baadal
rest	buruwiy
rain	dhamay
throw	waali
netbag	gulay
at that time	yalagiirrmawu
shoulder	biilaa
knee	dhinbirr
paddock	baadi
cloud	baama
fast	barraay
egg yolk	gawubaa
eyebrow	dhinmirr
soap	dhuubuu
boy	birray
call	gagali
die	balugi
older	bagaan
grasshopper	bunbun
arm	bungun
big	burrul
many	burrulaa
brother	dhaya
family	dhiiyaan
child	gaayli
no	gamil
digging	ganay
name	gayrr
galah	gilaa
partner	guliirr
female	gunidjarrbaa
friend	maliyaa
male	mandayaa
what	minyama
brushtail possum	mudhay
aunt	walgan
catfish	gaygay
hello	yaama
that	nhama
this	nhalay
you	ngindaali
you	ngindaay
who	ngaandi
weak	balumbaluu
swimming	gubiyaanha
take	gaagi
steal	gaarramali
give	wuuna
comb	baadali
socks	dhagin
pregnant	mubalyaal
stomach	mubal
lie	yaal
poison	baadjin
moon	baaluu
chicken	baawul
hotel	babuligaarr
beer	badha gali
pipe	baaybuu
gate	badi ganaay
bicycle	badjigal
butterfly	balabalaa
social	Gabudhaa
pronunciation	dhaalan
medicine	dhalbin
winter	dhandarraa
heel	dhanga
sweat	nguuwi
track	yawali
kiss	yabili
give	wuurri
owner	wurrugaa
scab	giigal
headache	gagil dhaygal
hair	dhaygal
spit	dhubil
skin	yaydja
swelling	wurrun
dribble	wiiluun
sweat	nguruwi
tear	nguluurr
scar	mubirr
mucus	mirril
smallpox	dhumadhuma
smallpox	buuwiir
all	ganungawu
understand	winingay
car	wilbaarr
poor	ngarragaa
chair	gulaban
book	biibabiiba
spoon	dhiyarral
ouch	yagaay
shhh	gaabu
day	yaadha
week	gibu
earthquake	burruwi
where	dhalaa
why	minyagu
this way	dhaay
went	yananhi
go	yanaya
thank you	maarubaa nginda
shave	wiirrali
shoe	manduwii
bag	man.garr
flower	gurayn
three	gulibaa
four	buligaa
seven	guulay
nine	mirraal
ten	banay
six	yuli
thousand	dhawadha
million	wiwurra
year	gurrubuu
January	gayn.gayn
December	bambul
February	gaaguluu
March	guwibirr
April	Bulawaa
May	gawurragiil
June	garriil
July	barrgay
August	yin.ga-gabu
September	maalinha
October	guwadhaa
November	mugiin.gaa
sit	ngarriy
write	dhurri
how much	minyangay
white	banggabaa
black	buluuy
yellow	gidjirrgidjirr
red	guwaymbarra
drink	ngarugi
look out	nhama-dhaay
no	garriya
golden perch	dhagaay
murray cod	guduu
plate	wirri
knife	magal
once	maala
computer	gayrragumbirri
electricity	gayrra
brain	gumbirri
me	nganha
sweet	guwiirr
meat	dhinggaa
ball	burugalaa
picture	dhadhin
human	malawil
shoulder	walarr
cough	gunhugunhu
cough	gunhugunhu dhurri
always	yaliwunga
me	nganunda
long	guyaarr
club	bundi
hit	bumali
slowly	baluwaa
me	nganundi
woven	waygal
pink	guwaguwaymbarra
gloves	marabin
toothpaste	dhanba
apple	dhanda
fruit	biyan
hall	nganabidi
toaster	wiigu
Australia	Yarraanbaa
Australian	Yarraanbarra
movie	yadha
kitchen	yuulmal
party	yuguwa
talk	guwaali
paper	biiba
eat	dhalngayiy
school	dhiirrabaa
plastic	wulbul
platypus	buubumurr
fox	buumadhayaa
vessel	buurraan
butter	dhuuman
train	dhuurrbal
freezer	dhandarrbaa
brush	biimali
microwave	ngamuldiilbil
beach	gaagal
map	dhawunda
steam	buuga
bus	banbu
towel	balalmal
vegetable	gawaarraa
glass	giyiirr
sea	gurrwa
indigenous	marigiirr
he	nguru
hour	yurra
wiper	gaanbal
tea	dhiri
match	buri
bank	banggulbaa
coolabah	gulabaa
shallow	gilgaay
marriage class	marrii
marriage class	gambu
marriage class	gabutha
marriage class	yibathaa
marriage class	buuthaa
gradually	badjinbal
never	baluwaal
twice	bulaarra
flash	dhirra
always	dhugay
nicely	gabangaarr
badly	gamil maaru
blue-tongued skink	wubun
aboriginal	giwiirr
sick	baynbaa
music	buubal
our	ngalingu
to us	ngalingunda
from	ngalingundi
we	ngiyani
us	ngiyaninya
our	ngiyaningu
to us	ngiyaningunda
from us	ngiyaningundi
you	nginunha
your	nginu
from you	nginundi
you	nginaalinya
Monday	Baalaay
water current	yarrin
small	yiyagungawuma
smoke	buubili
smell	buwiy
fart	buubali
have sex	dhaarri
feel sick	dhaalagi
big	-bidi
small	-DHuul
covered with	-bil
daughter in law	girrinya
tin can	giyaan
sweetbread	gulawularr
spur-winged plover	baaldharradharra
foot	baburr
stool	gulaay
upset	bina guwaal
deaf	bina muurr
full	muurr
alive	murrun
with	-biyaay
formerly	gibaylandhi
constant	giidjuugiidjuu
slowly	guwaaybaa
well	maayu
sequentially	mandaymanday
still	mayabuu
backwards	miirrmiirr
hard	ngaarr
direction	dhuba
sugar	dhuga
pink	guwaguway
green	gawarrawaarr
purple	bibubibu
orange	bambubambul
blue	yiluwidi
brown	gunagunaa
grey	dhadhaal
eyebrow	ngiirr
man	giwiir
urinate	giiliy
at	-dha
wet	galibaraay
road	dhurrabal
burial	dhanmurr
grave	gurru
wind	mayrraa
small	maanggii
small	badjin
cut	garrali
branch	muyaan
aboriginal	wiringin
fix	maarumali
very	yarrbun
fat	wamu
yabbie	giirray
rain	yuuruu
quiet	dhabiy
plover	biramba
stone	yarral
where	minyaaya
dirt	djulu
spring wind	yarragaa
thief	manumadhaay
