Turkey	Turkia
island	ada
God	alla
five	ხუთი
sister	და
Laz	ა
hand	ხე
horse	ცხენი
big	დიდი
old woman	დიდა
boy	ბიჭი
walnut	კაკალი
lime	კირი
goat	თხა
haystack	ბარდი
spleen	ფანწალა
millet	ფატი
goat	ქოშატი
gutter	გუბი
soot	წოლა
dirt	ლები
soiled	ლებიარი
dirty	ლებონი
address	adresi
smoulder	მღ
donkey	ეშეღი
walnut	ღლეპა
weigh	წონ
example	ორნეღი
wine	ღუინი
ownerless	ანდერი
wolf	გუერი
blanket	საბანი
girl	ბოზო
prop	ხაჩკეტი
write	ჭარ
cat	კატუ
წულუ კითი	წულუ კითი
finger	კითი
little	წულუ
iron	ერკინა
bridge	ხინჯი
trout	კალმახა
thanks	საღოლ
sheep	ჩხური
road	გზა
meat	ხორცი
daughter	ოსური
snake	წიწილა
barn	ბაკი
hoe	თოხი
male	მამული
always	პანდა
porter	მუშა
radish	ბულეკი
cucumber	შუკა
sand	შირიმი
war	ჯენგი
eyelash	კამწამი
snowflake	ფანტელი
dog	ლაკი
puppy	ლაკოტი
dog	ჯოღოი
king	მაფა
grandfather	პაპული
morning	ჭუმანი
tomorrow	ოჭუმე
glue	ჭაბუ
wall	ოკოდუ
man	კოჩი
God	ღორმოთი
tree	ჯა
snake	მგვერი
wife	ჩილი
face	პიჯი
heart	გური
one	ართი
three	სუმი
seven	შქვითი
nine	ჩხორო
eight	ოვრო
nose	ჩხვინდი
eye	თოლი
head	თი
day	დღა
mosquito	კოღონი
coal	ნოშქერი
flour	ქუერი
blood	დინცხირი
yesterday	ღომა
love	ყოროფა
friend	მეგაბრე
book	სუპარა
lung	ფურფუ
I	მა
rain	ჭიმა
pear	მცხული
fat	ჩხუ
sickle	მანგალი
basket	ცანცა
scythe	ქერენდი
scythe	დრეპანი
moustache	ბუჲუღი
friendly	გზამშინე
second	სანიჲე
crown	კოტულა
mud	ტოლოფი
water	წკარი
some	amʒika
America	Ameriǩa
American	Ameriǩanuri
apartment building	apartumani
April	ap̌rili
Laz town	Arkabi
artist	artisi
axe	arguni
camel	aklemi
candidate	adai
elevator	asansori
fish hook	anǩesi
frosty	ayazi
Germany	Alamani
hard-working	aǯup̌eťi
health	afieťi
however	ancaği
hunter	avci
breath	apiçora
instantly	apiçoras
jumper	anteri
justice	adaleťi
kestrel	anǩe
lawyer	abuǩaťi
lion	aslani
Abkhaz	Abazuri
ablution	abdezi
acid	asiťi
Africa	Afriǩa
alcohol	alkoli
alphabet	alboni
anarchist	anaşiťi
antenna	anťeni
Arab	Arap̌i
Arabia	Arap̌istani
Arabic	Arap̌uri
town	Arťaşeni
athlete	aťleťi
August	ağustozi
avaricious	acanli
bedridden	astenyari
bulb	ampuli
convenances	anǯala
childless	aǩop̌uri
citrus	aranżi
crocus	alimorci
custom	adeťi
dragon	ajlia
each other	artiǩati
electricity	aletriǩi
little	amʒiǩa
main responsibility	ananǩeni
military service	asǩerona
namesake	arcoxoni
new	ağani
news	ambai
niece	alimse
Arkabi	Arkaburi
Atina	Atinuri
operation	ameliyaťi
orange	aranża
pavement	asfalťi
peach	anťama
reluctant	agure
scorpion	aǩrep̌i
sea bream	azmarida
seagull	alioni
edge	aǩra
slope	aťǩozi
so	aşo
soldier	asǩeri
stream	abca
right away	astaxolo
survey	ankeťi
tasteless	anoste
objects	anderi
entrance	amolva
worry	axişeli
tool	aleťi
unity	artoba
six	aşi
daystar	aviťe
weft	aťǩi
day	ap̌oťe
whereas	andaseni
window frame	aǩoşka
festivity	bayami
baklava	baǩlava
barn	baǩi
basic	basiťi
bat	burbu
bee	buťǩuci
beehive	bogina
bottle	boťliǩa
boulevard	bulvari
brothel	bardaxana
bump	buksi
childhood	beroba
childish	bereburi
claim	beani
computer	bilgisayari
cotton	bambaǩi
debt	borci
diamond	bilyanťi
elbow	biǩiç̌i
empty	boşi
finger nail	buʒxa
flag	bayraği
glass	bardaği
grapevine tree	binexi
handful	babuza
hedgehog	bużgi
importance	beciťoba
important	beciťi
insect	bobola
jerrycan	boduci
knee	burguli
large cube	batmani
lazy	bunduri
minister	bakani
ministry	bakanluği
mould	boťi
bereavement	bgara
nipple	bużi
sharp	bencela
packet	baç̌ǩa
page	buťǩa
pansy	bozobiç̌i
paternity	babaoʒxe
petrol	benzini
pinion	bundğa
pomegranate	berǯeuli
presumably	barťa
prime minister	başbakani
goat	boçi
rice	brinci
shaved	bğeri
shingle	bedarva
silver	baçxuri
silver necklace	boğaǩisťi
single	bekyari
song	birapa
sparrow	bağulya
spider web	bobolalimsa
radish	buleǩi
suitcase	bağuli
tearful	bgarineri
ticket	beleťi
ticket collector	bileťç̌i
tomato	balucaği
ugly	beťi
V-shaped object	bajgi
cellar	bağu
wheel	barbali
father	baboni
answer	coğap̌i
blue	cğaťa
brave	cesuri
castle	cixa
circumciser	ciyaxi
courage	cesareťi
craving	cedginu
epaulette	cençaneri
funeral	cinaze
gum	circili
heaven	cenneťi
hell	ceenemi
hump	cinişi
named	coxoni
operator	ceraxi
palate	cicili
peace	cumaloba
president	Cumurbaşǩani
razor blade	cileťi
republic	cumuriyeťi
response	cuğap̌i
seedbed	cetasule
sentence	cumle
serious	ciťťi
spurge	coğorimja
crouch down	cemǩusu
name	coxons
vaccinate	ceyonu
visit	cegoru
uncle	cumadi
volume	cildi
Wednesday	cumaçxa
lightning	dovalu
absent	dorǩineri
ant	dumç̌ǩu
birth	dobadu
blood	diʒxiri
buffalo	dombai
train	duraği
Chelidonium	dandageri
citizen	dobadonari
clothed	dolokuneri
clothing	dolokunu
country	dobadona
dawn	dotanure
deep	derini
design	dizaini
doctor	doxtori
document	dokyumani
dolphin	delpina
enough	dobağine
epic poem	destani
experience	dogurapa
female	daduli
fertile	doinale
fire	daçxuri
fire	dandara
firewood	dişka
frost	doği
gigantic	domtumela
grandmother	didinana
hard-working	dulyamxenu
head	dudi
irreligious	dinsuzi
kidney	dirǩu
land	dixa
land	danżona
lime blossom	duʒxu
longish	dogunżura
low	dabali
milk sister	damangaperi
mother-in-law	damtire
red	domç̌ita
necessary	diçirs
necessary	diç̌irs
plant	doʒonu
potato	dixamakvali
prick spine	danżi
private	doxmeli
relatively short	domǩula
religious	dindari
school	doguroni
shop	dukyani
sickle	drep̌ani
relatively big	didoci
sorrow	derdiyari
sorrow	derdi
space	dogneği
state	devleťi
stinging nettle	diç̌ǩici
swing	doloǩanure
teacher	dogurale
gave birth	doineri
tired	doç̌ǩinderi
tiredness	doç̌ǩinoba
accommodate	dobargu
apply	dosumu
bury	doxvalu
call off	dodgitinu
complaint	doloťalu
dawn	dotanu
declare	domçinu
defecate	dozgumu
drain	dobalu
creep	dosvalu
echo	dololandu
fire	dgin
tired	doç̌ǩindu
give birth	doinu
hide	dompulu
hold	dokaçu
hurry up	doşinu
hold	dokaçapu
lie down flat	docinu
place	dodvalu
record	doloç̌aru
remain	doskidu
rest	doşvacu
rub	dogurcolu
seat	doxunu
oneself	dolongonu
shit	dozgvalu
sink	doşǩvalu
sink	domǩusu
stay awake	dotanapu
step down	dobazginapu
stop	dodgitu
swing	doloǩanu
assumption	doǯonu
throw	doǩanu
urinate	dopsumu
tower	dudira
vein	damari
weapon	doǩanaşe
week	doloni
wheat	diǩa
into	doloxe
work	dulya
spill	dobğalu
acidulous	elazoğona
Azrael	ezazile
bandit	eşǩiya
barrier	endoli
cousin	eksale
creature	enoçkinde
death	eceli
desolate	elaǩaxa
dimension	ebaťi
dream	ezmoce
duvet	etvalu
example	evula
express	ekspresi
end	eçouri
grass bundle	enç̌ili
hatred	edgina
hill	elamti
imposed	empoze
inflation	enflasioni
international	enternasionali
matchstick	ebza
measles	elemiťa
member of staff	elemani
mole	emxu
morality	exlaǩi
mostly	epto
nickname	elaçama
old-time	eveli
on the road	elagza
open	eoçveri
pharmacy	eczaxana
poor quality	elerti
relative	eǩraba
responsibility	exondvala
supplies	erzaği
thirty	eçidovit
standing up position	einç̌en
sufficient	einç̌inams
burp	emğuru
commemorate	elaşinu
execute	eonç̌alu
hiccup	eşiǩu
join	eǩonťalu
joke	eloťalu
match	eladvalu
open	eoçvalu
order	eǩoyonu
run high	exrisǩu
scared	emǩutu
slander	eodvalu
take responsibility	exondvalu
take	eç̌opumu
twenty	eçi
twenty-one	eçidoar
hill	emtumani
lift up	eǩozdu
activity	faliyeťi
barrel	fuç̌i
bicycle	filispiťi
brush	furç̌a
care	fiǩiri
cup	fincani
difference	ferki
disaster	felakeťi
duty	farzi
faculty	fakulte
fascist	faşisťi
feather	fťiloma
feces	fuşǩi
film	filimi
flash	flaşi
football	fuťboli
green pea	frasuli
interest	faizi
mucus	fingili
opportunist	furseťç̌i
opportunity	furseťi
photograph	fotorafi
price	fieťi
Pyrrhula	fiyo
qadar	fiťre
boat	feluǩa
safety pin	firǩeta
storm	furťona
waistcloth	foťa
wick	fiťili
air escape	geşutxu
because of	gurine
beginning	geç̌ǩapa
blizzard	geç̌ǩu
brides dress	gelinluği
broadcast	gamamşkumala
cockscomb	gerżi
comrade	gzamşine
craving	gonç̌eloba
cuckoo bird	guguli
curse	geç̌ǩala
dewlap	gurp̌ici
difference	gonkturu
donkey	guruni
hill	gemtumani
dress	gedvaluri
embroidery	geǯopxeri
food	gyari
fortune-teller	gemǯǩomilu
from now on	genoťale
fruit basket	gudeli
grey mullet	gilare
group	gurubi
half	gverdi
halfway	gverdi-p̌ap̌a
hoopoe	golamamuli
identity	genoçine
infidel	gyavuri
last year	goǯo
leader	gencğoneri
length	gunbżenoba
long	gunże
lost	gondineri
mealtime	gyaroba
memory	gonoşine
money	geç̌areri
mountain man	germaǩoçi
open	gonǯǩeri
everybody	galeni
pressure	gebazga
fortune telling	gemǯǩomiloba
around	gomtume
return	goktala
revolution	gektala
rose	gyulpukiri
row	gelaxuna
sad	gemzuleri
sale	gamaçamu
salesman	gamamçamu
security	gyuvenluği
separate	gamaǩateri
sin	gyunaxi
sinful	gyunaxkyari
spiteful	guriǩa
day after tomorrow	gendğani
aim at	gamasonu
awake	goǩuʒxu
be bored	goncuǩu
shocked	gosǩudu
surprised	goşaşu
used to	gegaperi
bedazzle	goşaşinu
begin	geçamu
bite	geǩibinu
blossom	gonťapu
broadcast	gamaşkumu
chase after	gentxozu
chew	gexoru
choose	goşağmalu
condemn	gepxasu
dispatch	gontaxilu
disrobe	goçvalu
solve	geǯǩumu
erase	gejilu
exchange	gokturu
arrange	geǯopxu
forget	goç̌ǩondu
used to	geginu
get down	gelva
dry	geskuru
get lost	gondunu
ride	gexunu
used to	gegapu
go out	gamolva
go round	goktu
guess	gezadu
hang	geloǩidu
hug	goǩoru
lock	genǩolu
lose	gondinu
breastfeed	gebalu
open	gonǯalu
part	gamaǩatu
pass off	goloğalu
passage	gololva
prefer	goşaʒxunu
press	gebażgu
put in action	geç̌ǩapu
put on	getvalu
bring to mind	goşinu
rinse	gonoru
enterprise	gedgalu
settle	gexedu
sort	gesvaru
steal	goxiru
stop by	golaktalu
strain	gonzdalu
suffocate	geşkvidu
swallow	geşkvalu
take out	gamağmalu
take out	gamayonu
test	geʒadu
widen	gomçiranu
yearn	gonç̌elu
traveller	gomla
understanding	gognaperi
victory	gecgina
ward	gogza
waterfall	geçaçxaloni
west	gyulva
sad	gemzuli
stink	gonťinu
patch up	geburu
pour	gobalu
inanimate	goğmalu
animate	goyonu
as much as	heǩonari
baths	hemami
belonging	hamuşi
cell	hucre
come on	hayde
damage	hasari
dominant	hakimi
excitement	heyecani
fan	hayrani
government	hukyumeťi
handball	hentboli
manner	haşo
insult	hakareťi
law	huǩuği
like that	heşo
line	haťi
native	hakoni
brother	ჯუმა
human	ინსანი
come on	ჰაჲდე
camel	აქრემი
breast	ბუძი
temple	ოხვამე
corn	ლაზუტი
brain	ღნოსი
stepchild	პროღონი
quail	ოტრიკე
blanket	ჲორღანი
knife	ხამი
Lazistan	Lazona
Georgia	Okortura
Georgian	Korturi nena
Georgian	Korturi
Georgian	Kortuli
Georgian	Kortuli nena
Laz	Lazuri
Laz	Lazuri nena
Georgian	ქორთუ
buttocks	მუნდი
kitchen garden	ონტულე
thousand	შილია
swallow	მშირიდონი
widow	შირა
widow	ტული
eyebrow	ოჶრიდი
yard	ავლია
slipper	პაპუწი
black	უჩა
September	ეკენია
earth	ლეტა
fishing net	მოსა
spider	რახნა
curd	მინჯი
season	ტარონი
