sand	bone
long	are
day	eo
liver	ate
he	ia
week	minggu
symptom	dua
guest	rata
we	kita
flattery	undo
slogan	kopa
shy	ea
coffee	kopi
hand	pale
end	doe
time	jam
pillow	luna
chicken	manu
silver	pera
clothing	baju
table	meja
noise	oni
bunch	dei
dog	dike
chisel	biti
ginger	kula
color	loba
chameleon	toke
teacher	guru
male	laki
sugar	gola
gravestone	bate
lie	boa
house	sou
bamboo	walo
kind	dero
large water jar	gumba
grasshopper	bati
funnel	bulo
duck	titi
wild pandanus	naso
farmer	polio
word	basa
fragrant mango	anca
who	yema
very	gaga
eye	mata
lightning	kila
place	mari
Sunday	Minggu
Saturday	Satu
corn	goa
spoken sentence	lolita
meow	meo
content	isi
cheek	peli
root	lari
salt	unu
body	koro
mud	rege
T-shirt	koje
tax debt	kolo
bed	koi
catfish	lele
back	bengo
remainder	labi
germ	kuma
stylish	lodi
roof	ata
bean	kasa
weaving device	ike
money	doi
chest	bambara
floor	doula
banana	loka
oil	lana
dried meat	kari
bag	kanto
potato	kanta
uncooked rice	ose
traditional turban	siga
dwarf buffalo	lupu
fishing net	landa
you	komi
moon	wula
Portuguese	topi
use	guna
skin	kuli
true	kono
direction	alu
tuft	bini
mountain	bulu
sago palm	rumbia
machine	masina
cotton	waru
lake	rano
sky	langi
tongue	dila
fishhook	peka
photograph	koda
if	aga
wing	kapi
allotment	tombo
can	bele
bird	dumu
brook	salu
container	labo
rain	uda
trash	rumpu
fish trap	kipu
type	ngaya
tooth	baga
measuring rope	beti
wood	kou
powder	bada
child	ngana
direction	lou
rice spoon	sondu
chin	ade
twin	rapi
sea	tasi
harvest	inala
heart	sule
traditional	dupa
urine	tole
sheep	bimba
kitchen ash	pompo
sarong	bua
use	lotu
albumen	lula
alum	taba
jungle	wana
information	kareba
until	sudu
hindrance	lawa
horn	tondu
ball	sepa
ape	kaleja
competitor	timali
cuscus	kuse
plug	loke
pig	boe
landslide	tura
gasoline	benci
part	mbira
something	koloa
very	ntoto
card	buja
shaman	sando
road	dala
brass tray	dula
name	sanga
witness	sabi
sack	rombe
snare	pewa
wok	kawali
firepit	tondi
board	dopi
shovel	sero
cup	lonco
flour	topu
power	kente
later	ngoni
smell	soa
mattress	kasoro
foot	paa
fern	paku
Wednesday	Rabu
tangerine	lemo
you	iko
fist	kombo
trench	keke
debt	inda
village	kinta
fate	uere
cement	sime
oar	bose
I	yaku
pimple	deia
coconut fiber	benu
sago	tabaro
eagle	lowe
evening	bengi
horse	jara
banyan	nunu
friend	wega
honey	manisa
cat	peba
head	kapala
fat	lomu
village	ngata
stone	watu
cave	lobu
tail	lelo
nape	tundu
portion	neke
product	bundu
watermelon	ndola
taro	doupe
mudhole	tampo
hectare	heto
mouth	nganga
package	bungu
mosquito net	lambu
egg	ntolu
unhusked rice	pae
step	eda
reflection	wao
food	kondi
bracelet	luba
energy	wuku
neighbor	tongki
cloud	gawu
chain	rante
Tuesday	Salasa
sweet potato	uwi
cemetery	dayo
lip	wiwi
gum	uga
animism	anitu
stiff	nakodo
hide	kulimba
dwarf	touta
flower	wunga
tooth	ngisi
poison	tuwa
blouse	pangga
frog	tumpa
addiction	wio
guava	gambu
chair	kadera
rope	kaloro
pity	towe
blood	raa
office	kantoro
hot	nalala
slope	lempe
cornflour	kungku
plank	baloti
older sibling	tuaka
small shrimp	lamale
jackfruit	ganaga
saw	garagaji
papaya	gampaya
crocodile	kapuna
crowbar	pandoli
cotton	sisiri
coconut	kaluku
cart	goroba
centipede	alipa
butterfly	kalibamba
boat	duanga
bird	tonci
bedbug	koloka
belt	sulepe
axe	baliu
architect	tamungku
grass	kawoko
gold	bulawa
goat	kebe
goldfish	sumi-sumi
fruit	wua
fog	kulimu
flute	lalowe
firefly	alipopo
finger	karawe
feces	totei
eel	masapi
dusk	kinowia
cucumber	ntimu
rust	tagara
secret	ntoliro
seed	ongu
shield	kaliawo
snail	kalumbe
soap	sabu
star	betue
tobacco	tambako
tomato	tamate
weapon	panaguntu
worm	kalindoro
window	kumbeo
yarn	rombu
yesterday	iwengi
pit	lowu
plate	suraya
water pipe	salodo
pencil	patolo
paper	karatasa
mug	sangkiri
mosque	masigi
mortar	noncu
monitor lizard	timposu
menstruation	simbunga
mathematics	pantaru
bee	oani
day after tomorrow	neipua
mango	morowe
bat	mampo
angel	malaeka
knife	ladi
tip	wuntu
turtledove	wuko
door	wombo
vine	walaa
time	uatu
crow	tuturua
owner	tumpu
younger sibling	tuei
adult	toualu
prohibition	toncii
mouse	toneru
plant	tinuda
lemongrass	timpowane
spear	tawala
dew	tantoru
long bean	tambue
crown	talidangka
brass	tambaga
heaven	surowi
heaven	suruga
large duck	surati
wick	sumbu
Islam	silamu
hiccup	seduka
taro	rumbi
scale	ruke
drinking water	rainu
pants	puruka
lock	potuko
equipment	parewa
permission	paliu
medicine	pakuli
executioner	padaso
tomorrow	neile
line	garisi
mud	gulompu
group	gumawu
scissors	gunci
breath	inosa
story	jarita
they	isira
battle	iwali
like this	iwei
here	isei
bubble	kalimbubu
song	dodia
spleen	dampila
later	bulei
curse	bunto
spider	bukao
rattan	bolago
thunder	berese
water buffalo	bengka
how	beiwa
large tray	batili
deceiver	pebagiu
shoulder	awinga
but	agiana
birthmark	wulili
shinbone	mbulu
voice	wotu
sheath	walombo
pain	todosaka
hat	songko
fragment	rupuna
clothing	pakea
limit	siolo
beloved	simpokono
ring	sinci
danger	silaka
palate	ngare
front part	ngayo
baptism	pandiu
pounding tool	reremba
underground spring	ntumbu
historical account	tutura
body	batara
livestock	ewua
property	gagu
hook	gancu
commotion	gesi
nature	inggu
bucket	tombu
forehead	wingke
top	wongko
piece	wowata
pool	wusu
journey	polumakoa
Pleiades	malunu
rainbow	marasawu
pepper	marisa
humor	kuwawa
face	lence
shape	lencena
muscle	kunco
gutter	kinali
night	kawengi
distance	kawaona
thumb	katumpu
bat	katipoa
yellow squash	katedo
cassava	kasubi
complaint	kasuru
we	ikami
shoe	kalumpa
January	Wula Saungu
February	Wula Roungu
March	Wula Tuluongu
April	Wula Aopongu
May	Wula Limaongu
June	Wula Aonongu
July	Wula Pituongu
August	Wula Waluongu
September	Wula Siongu
October	Wula Sampuluongu
November	Wula Sampulu Saungu
December	Wula Sampulu Roungu
Thursday	Kamisi
Monday	Sinei
Friday	Jumaa
fingernail	kanuku
jury	kapita
spear	kanjei
complaint	kangua
palm fiber	kapuga
work	karajaa
curse	karanala
rattan basket	karanci
Christian	Karasite
rice porridge	karoda
gap	kangilo
mockery	kanene
long sickle	kandao
hole	kamboa
unfinished rice barn	kambalili
raven	kaloa
unmarried young man	kabilasa
cow	japi
small	jibo
small lamp	poindo
attachment	gandawari
porch	gandaria
mixture	pogalo
drawing	gambara
divorce	pogaa
summer	pane eo
full moon	kaeoa
east	mata eo
cane	duruka
bone	dongke
intonation	donci
wild boar	dolodo
crab	bungka
term	bobu
female	birantua
ravine	bingke
container	batutu
riddle	baro-baro
fin	barimbi
ruler	basitara
turtle	bantiluku
girl	bangkele
serving	pangkondi
dining table	pangkondia
restaurant	pangkondiaa
rice husk	konga
muscle	kinco
yard	pokintaa
far	nakawao
blue	nakeli
steep	nakinda
small	nakodi
true	nakono
choice	konoa
truth	kakonoana
hard	nakoo
dirty	nakotoro
hard	nakaja
itchy	nakakata
doubtful	nakakia
confused	nakalimoma
empty	nakaloa
improper	kalowa-lowa
purple	nakamumu
rich	nakaria
yellow	nakuni
barren	nalalo
long	nalanga
tall	nalangko
height	langkona
drunk	nalangu
red	nalei
wilted	nalele
hidden	nalendu
worn out	nalenge
cold	nalengi
weak	naleo
late	nalera
nauseous	naligoa
slippery	nalilore
dizzy	nalimpu
stifling	nalimpusa
liquid	nolira
free	naloa
very ripe	naloe
free	naloga
adjective	lolita sipa
sunk	nalolo
extension	londo
cross-eyed	nalondo
bald	nalori
lazy	nalose
freed	naloso
unmarried	naloya
soft	nalunta
also	mbui
bat	menobola
wet	namenta
sweet	namomi
decayed	namupu
tame	nanara
cruel	nasoa
sleepy	nangantu
easy	ngkola-ngkola
thin	nanipi
clear	naninto
patient	nanondo
cheap	nanou
other	ntani
soft	naole
question	pekutana
bitter	napei
difficult	napepa
broken	napese
narrow	napii
rice porridge	pinobala
unconscious	napipoa
sour	napodi
extinct	naponco
broken	napua
hot	narani
flat	narante
dazzling	nararo
enjoyable	narasa
ill	narumpe
dirty	narumu
smashed	narutu
ready	nasadia
connector	posambu
slipshod	nasapa
happy	nasana
morning	sangkabaa
harsh character	nasarese
sign	saropu
healed	naseha
harsh	naseke
energetic	nasasidi
angry	nasodo
proud	nasombo
public	sumawee
