four	new
tapiyik	tap
turkey	nem
five	nan
hop hornbeam	malus
two	tapu
berry	mins
two	nis
ox	akson
rain	petolan
skirt	askat
tokuwiyik	toku
smallpox	lahpihkut
water	nopim
bone marrow	winis
sugar	sukol
chief	sakom
arrow	pahq
oyster	pahsapsq
crow	kahkakuhs
owl	kamkamoss
rabbit	mahtoqehs
spoon	emqan
quahog	qahaks
black bear	muwin
scallop	mitessit
sea urchin	musahkuhs
Atlantic cod	nuhkomeq
Perch	puhkakon
sturgeon	pasokos
haddock	cilonikon
osprey	isomeqehs
fish	nomehs
salmon	polam
periwinkle	pukocalahs
flounder	aneqehs
stone	ponapsq
basket	posonut
pollock	peskotom
snake	athusoss
sled	'tapakon
smoke	pkot
birch	masq
canoe	oqiton
birchbark	masqewuloq
Picea mariana	kawatoq
clay	qahqolunsq
arrowhead	sikuwan
bean	masqosit
camp	wikut
black ash	wikposs
porcupine	matuwehs
wikpiyik	wikp
house	wikuwam
beaver	pqapit
dream	puwyakon
whale	putep
gathering	mawiyewakon
swamp	walcoq
story	atkuhkakon
longhouse	qanotuwan
six	kamahcin
one	pesq
one	neqt
three	nihi
seven	oluwikonok
leech	kihkamq
canoe	kihkamkuhun
door	khakon
bay	amonopekek
reef	monossapsq
rainbow	monoqan
lightning	monomeqakon
poplar	mitiyasq
red osier dogwood	nespihqamq
family	neqtakutomucik
woodcock	neqskihqessoss
great horned owl	kuhkukhahs
cedar	kakskusimus
cedar	kakskusihq
arborvitae	kakskus
blue flag	kakskimuhkahs
cedar	kakskatoq
pipsissewa	kakehkipokahkil
cranberry	suwonaks
highbush cranberry	ipiminaks
hair	piyehs
paper	pilasq
newborn	pileyahsis
morning	masuwon
paper birch	masqemus
turtle	cihkonaqc
skin	motekon
bat	motekoniyehs
cooking	skuwoss
den	skuwikuwam
brook trout	skuhtom
pumpkin	skucis
blackbird	skonoqoss
bone	skonis
treestump	psqoc
double-crested cormorant	oqons
barnacle	coqolahsiyamq
wampum	wapap
ghost	kehtaqs
tuhpiyik	tuhp
tobacco	'tomawey
serviceberry	anqotuwawimus
mud	ososq
level	atpehe
tide	ksehpehe
tide	macehpehe
canoe	'tahakon
bladder wrack	kaskolos
sheldrake	sihku
gentle	nulomuhset
whitecap	wapatq
gyrfalcon	wapewha
sits	opu
huckleberry	psuwimin
afire	psqolehtasu
war	psqocis
wind	pompekolamson
drizzles	apsapskolan
stops	ehqolan
raining	komiwon
rose	kikcokalokiqeminsimus
grebe	asups
pink lady's slipper	wiphulakson
pith	wipahq
sandpiper	cacawikatehs
road	awt
squirrel	atutuwehc
rest	atolahsimuwakon
glowing	malomuwehewapsq
flint	malsapsq
wolahqiyil	wolahq
good	wolahqemihke
yesterday	wolaku
tonight	wolakuk
truth	wolamewakon
burns	wolamkole
believes	wolamsotom
wolapitahtuwok	wolapite
evening	wolaqiwiw
flour	nukhomon
breeze	nullamson
humid	nulomahqolate
bramble	kawisimus
slopes	wakcuwikon
bark	wahsenomakon
tide	wahqapakuwiyak
sky	musikisq
kiyaqsis	kiyahq
loon	oqim
duck	amoqalokehs
black-capped chickadee	kocokikihlahsis
cattail	pkuwahqiyasq
bog	pkuwahq
blood	pokahkon
stick	pokomakon
fisher	pokomk
falls	pokosson
drum	pokuhulakon
dye	cossawakon
knowledge	kcicihtomuwakon
respect	kcitomitahatomuwakon
acaqaluhsok	acaqaluhs
mist	pkotewqiw
sandpiper	coskuwehsis
barn swallow	epeskocossis
killer whale	epeskomaluwehs
bufflehead	supeqiyehs
sea cucumber	supeqihpon
supeqahkomikuk	supeqahkomiq
supekuk	supeq
white spruce	supatoq
sand cherry	atuwamkimin
animal	wihk
wolokaskul	wolokasq
clamshell	pqonessokhikon
cuckoo	petolanuhket
floods	kompe
across	okamiw
in front	nihkaniw
plantain	sekotepokahtek
muskrat	kiwhos
sweet flag	kiwhosuwasq
groundnut	ktahkitom
ktahkomiq	ktahkomiq
seed	ktahkomons
seed	skonimin
lake	kuspem
teaberry	kuwanimin
oar	lacqessut
plow	lahkesawakon
hoe	lahkihikon
sin	lahkomiksuwakon
handle	lahqemhikon
cow parsnip	paqolus
blueberry	sahtemus
raspberry	minsossimus
sickness	ksinuhkewakon
love	kseltuwakon
teaching	kehkiketuwakon
course	eloqiyamok
culture	eleyimok
foundation	cetuwihikon
direction	acicuwon
comes	natonike
called	liwihtasuwiw
bobolink	sawoni-coqolosqs
mushroom	asukulapet
wikuwossicik	wikuwossit
black duck	motehehsim
mole	olomansk
crab	nomocinuhsehsit
if	nehtaw
team	mawuhkacik
poor	ktomakte
he	ktomakinaqsu
outer	skitahqem
topsoil	skitamq
skitapiyik	skitap
day	kisq
ice	pqom
sand	pqiyamkis
leaves	pqiptesuwiw
lamprey	sakapsqehtom
nossakemol	'sak
person	mawsuwin
groundhog	munimqehs
animal	weyossis
napahak	napaha
belted kingfisher	kaskumonoss
sand dollar	'qotalokamkis
pond	qotasq
chair	qotoput
alone	'qotuhkayiw
jellyfish	sahsap
grass	pskihq
waterfall	kapsq
quiver	pahqinut
bowstring	pahqiyap
wild leek	psehpon
gun	peskuwat
rope	ahpap
striped bass	mokahk
caribou	mokalip
pea	wenuhcuwimin
glass	wenuhcuwapsq
silver fox	wenhuket
field	ihtolahkikhotimok
woodpecker	pakahqaha
