the	te
of	o
beach	one
from	i
spear	tao
liver	ate
resemble	rite
a	he
and	me
sour	kawa
granule	pata
they	ia
my	aku
tame	rata
power	mana
stream	manga
what	aha
dead	mate
island	motu
eel	tuna
white	tea
rump	papa
taproot	more
North Island	Aotearoa
host	mano
pillar	pou
grimy	poke
bear	pea
Maori	Māori
bird	manu
pillow	pera
oar	hoe
liquid	inu
axe	toki
number	nama
learn	ako
snot	kea
eat	kai
nominative	ko
add	hono
hill	puke
passive	-a
oyster	tio
see	kite
waist	hope
pin	pine
worm	toke
Dinornis	moa
passive	-na
embark	eke
te	te reo
Maori	hongi
house	whare
carry	amo
cave	ana
gourd	hue
rim	tapa
hither	mai
afflict	maki
sea	tai
root	aka
boat	waka
new	hou
navel	pito
hydrogen	hauwai
after	muri
exist	ora
discard	akiri
rye	rai
desire	mina
war dance	haka
thing	mea
interior	roto
vagabond	tiara
ignorant	ware
when	ka
enter	tomo
weeping	tangi
of	a
Wikitoria	Wiki
Manei	Mane
Mary	Meri
south	tonga
sea urchin	kina
normal	māori
slap	paki
rest	oki
nice	reka
run	oma
tangata	tangata māori
wai	wai māori
human	tangata
people	tāngata
indigenous	tangata whenua
land	whenua
voice	reo
fire	ahi
when	kia
krill	ura
pay	utu
swamp	repo
yellow	kōwhai
path	ara
front	aro
stomach	puku
gather	hui
hole	puta
carry	hiki
black	mangu
grandfather	koro
sharp	koi
stutter	kakakaka
moon	marama
thatch	ato
river	awa
observe	tiro
maggot	iro
you	koe
nose	ihu
without	kore
shadow	ata
your	tō
bread	taro
life	mauri
scrofula	hore
courtyard	marae
yam	oka
enter	uru
e	ē
kinship	iwi
dog	kurī
New Zealander	pākehā
welcome	mihi
tea	hapa
passive	-ina
blood	toto
calm	marino
breadfruit	kuru
holy	tapu
happiness	hari
abundance	maha
make	hanga
hand	ringa
good	pai
chase	aru
skin	kiri
glean	hamu
bad	kino
yam	uhi
funeral	tangihanga
sleep	moe
coconut	niu
big	nui
fry	parai
Polynesian	moko
sandfly	namu
louse	kutu
eight	waru
finished	oti
long	roa
ocean	moana
elder	matua
god	atua
broil	tunu
sky	rangi
dump	tā
fly	rango
Friday	Paraire
dig	keri
red	whero
paramount	ariki
vomit	ruaki
hair	huru
Seriola lalandi	haku
cease	mutu
fame	rongo
afraid	mataku
grow	tupu
gill	puha
fog	kohu
nit	riha
octopus	wheke
oven	umu
draw	tuhi
bat	peka
shelf	whata
raw	ota
greenstone	pounamu
single	tahi
spoon	pune
New Zealand pigeon	rupe
turtle	honu
lock	raka
sample	pota
heat	hana
gold	koura
Ratana	morehu
rat	kiore
bat	pekapeka
lizard	ngārara
worm	noke
mantis	rō
mantis	whē
shark	mangō
mangō	mangō taniwha
mangō	mangō pare
slug	putoko
snail	pūpū
pepeke	pepeke nguturoa
giraffe weevil	tūwhaitara
gooseberry	kuihipere
coffee	kawhi
tea	tī
yes	āe
money	moni
lava	rangitoto
lead	matā
wrap	takai
neighbouring	pātata
maize	kānga
magnet	autō
disobedience	tutū
tai	tai āniwhaniwha
horse	hōiho
stallion	tāriana
reo	reo tupu
steel	tīra
smoko	mōkō
new	hōu
call	hū
burn	kā
no	kāo
white	mā
touch	pā
sodden	pī
night	pō
parrot	kākā
lotto	rōtō
macron	tohuto
tomato	tōmato
grandparent	tupuna
kia	kia ora
tangata	tangata tiriti
Delphinus delphis	aihe
word	kupu
fruit	hua
fig	piki
tiger	taika
flag	haki
weed	taru
demon	tipua
name	ingoa
time	wā
goitre	tenga
herring	aua
passive	-ia
most	tino
paper	pepa
cordial	mahana
binder	rona
mountain	maunga
moss	rimu
beach	tātahi
eyelash	kamo
computer	rorohiko
milk	waiū
nightmare	moepapa
nightmare	moenanu
panther	panata
cloud	kapua
color	kano
sword	hoari
refuse	kainga
strike	patu
small	riki
scent	kakara
spur	kipa
Maori	Tuna
type	momo
saltwater	tarakihi
May	Mei
hook	matau
mouth	waha
eyebrow	pewa
sheep	hipi
bore	wiri
guest	manuhiri
takahe	takahē
lie	whakapapa
shrub	koromiko
Miriam	Miriama
flowing	waikato
Big Mac	Makanui
pepe	pepe tunga
genitalia	hema
again	anō
avalanche	horonga
broad squid	ngū
arrow squid	wheketere
bay	kokoru
bay	whanga
black	pango
filth	weta
be	kia kaha
pig	poaka
hotel	hōtēra
whare	whare noho
Lithuania	Rituānia
Ukraine	Ūkareinga
Korea	Koria
Mongolia	Mongōria
Sweden	Huitene
United Kingdom	Kīngitanga Kotahi
Italy	Itāria
Spain	Pāniora
Frenchman	Wīwī
Switzerland	Huiterangi
Gibraltar	Kāmaka
Latvia	Rāwhia
Norway	Nōwei
Vatican	Poho o Pita
Netherlands	Hōrana
Kazakhstan	Katatānga
Turkey	Tāke
Slovakia	Horowākia
Moldova	Morotawa
Poland	Pōrana
Romania	Romeinia
merely	noa
chin	kauwae
separate	wehe
cake	keke
law	ture
song	waiata
electric	hiko
younger	teina
New Zealand flax	harakeke
go	haere
rainbow	rore
work	mahi
purple swamphen	pūkeko
weta	wētā
te	te reo Māori
foliage	raurau
dual	māua
dual	tāua
Turnagra	piopio
wait	taihoa
experienced	mātanga
alcohol	waipiro
uncle	matua kēkē
aunty	whaea kēkē
mother	whaea
father	pāpā
hua	hua whenua
beautiful	ātaahua
weapon	rākau
miracle	merekara
chief	rangatira
dive	ruku
tooth	niho
tongue	arero
jollytail	inanga
sit	noho
people	hunga
north	tokerau
feather	huruhuru
come	haere mai
wash	horoi
morepork	ruru
smoke	auahi
book	pukapuka
ki	ahau
seahorse	manaia
plural	mātou
plural	tātou
sew	tuitui
demons	aitu
man	tāne
te	te reo Pākehā
the	ngā
January	Hānuere
February	Pēpuere
March	Māehe
April	Āperire
June	Hune
July	Hūrae
August	Ākuhata
September	Hepetema
October	Oketopa
November	Noema
December	Tīhema
kakapo	kākāpō
knowledge	wānanga
whare	whare wānanga
snake	neke
break	wāhi
altar	āta
rotten	pirau
you	koutou
you	kōrua
they	rāua
they	rātou
towards	whaka-
my	taku
strand	whenu
Japan	Nipono
pimple	kiritona
wart	kautona
community	hapori
sea snail	pāua
butterfly stroke	kau aihe
reef	ākau
equality	ōritetanga
rabbit	rāpeti
dream	moemoeā
geyser	ngāwhā
hot spring	ngāwhāriki
grey	kiwikiwi
Piper excelsum	kawakawa
blowhole	pihapiha
sister	tuahine
girl	tamahine
daughter	tamāhine
child	tamaiti
newspaper	nūpepa
me	āku
me	ōku
French Guiana	Kaiana Wīwī
French bean	pīne-ā-Wīwī
scattered	wāwā
question	pātai
quack	keakea
Maori	kiekie
my	tōku
my	tāku
muck	ōi
coal	waro
onyx	onika
soar	hoka
refugee	konene
passport	uruwhenua
property	taonga
meat	mīti
Antares	Rerehu
crayfish	kōura
war	pakanga
metal	maitai
metal	mētara
clock	karaka
Sunday	Rātapu
banana	panana
bank	pēke
heart	manawa
room	rūma
pigeon	kūkū
street	tiriti
guardian	kaitiaki
ritual	karakia
grandchild	mokopuna
kangaroo	kangarū
wind	matangi
dollar	tāra
excrement	tūtae
motorcycle	motopaika
weather	huarere
car	motokā
tent	tēneti
Achilles tendon	iohere punga
definition	aronga
mutton	mīti hipi
beef	mīti kau
depart	wehe atu
election	pōtitanga
take off	hārewa
fight	whawhai
ordinal	tua-
wound	tūnga
roof	tuanui
piece	wāhanga
dangerous	mōrearea
kitchen	hereumu
Andrew	Ānaru
Daniel	Rāniera
David	Rāwiri
James	Hēmi
Michael	Mikaere
Peter	Pita
Philip	Piripi
Thomas	Tāmati
Matthew	Matiu
Mark	Māka
Joanna	Hoana
Rebekah	Rīpeka
Susanna	Hūhana
Martha	Māta
Ruth	Rutu
Priscilla	Pirihira
Lydia	Riria
Rachel	Rāhera
John	Hoani
Joseph	Hōhepa
Paul	Pāora
Samuel	Hāmuera
Stephen	Tēpene
Moses	Mohi
Timothy	Tīmoti
Isaiah	Īhāia
Isaac	Īhaka
Simon	Haimona
Simeon	Himiona
Adam	Ārama
Selwyn	Herewini
Maoriness	Māoritanga
-ness	-tanga
feeler	hihi
gravity	tōāpapa
asset	rironga
fund	tahua
statistics	tatauranga
slippery	peopeo
unique	tūhāhā
microscope	karaihe whakanui
glass	karaihe
hone	oroi
ignite	papahū
bump	hūtuki
investigate	tūhura
investigate	whakatewhatewha
red-tailed tropicbird	amokura
handlebar	hānara
decline	whakanau
frond	tētē
frond	pītau
strict	pākaha
result	otinga
enjoy	hākinakina
impassive	whakaririka
list	rārangi
constitution	kaupapa ture
negotiate	whiriwhiri
remorse	kaniawheatanga
armpit	kēkē
diligent	urupū
jar	tiā
obscure	rehurehu
elegant	huatau
expect	tūmanako
parking lot	tūnga waka
frostbite	mate hukapuri
gangrene	kikohunga
futile	mūhore
lead	ārahi
symptom	tohumate
swing	tārere
elder	kaumātua
goatfish	āhuruhuru
custom	tikanga
go	haere ra
goodbye	e noho ra
hello	tēnā koe
hello	tēnā kōrua
hello	tēnā koutou
that	tēnā
that	tērā
this	tēnei
treat	whakataurekareka
toast	tōhi
Indonesia	Initonīhia
pregnant	hapū
desktop	papamahi
hardware	pūmārō
appliance	pūrere
activate	whakahohe
firmware	pūmanamārō
system	pūnaha
apple	āporo
agent noun	kai-
speaker	kaikōrero
vote	pōti
police	pirihimana
cold	makariri
mathematics	pāngarau
science	pūtaiao
natural gas	kapuni
-ness	-hanga
-ness	-ranga
knowledge	mātauranga
health	hauora
-ness	-anga
walk	whakaraka
dread	wehi
source	ipurangi
desktop	papa mahi
Jehovah	Ihowā
Leptospermum scoparium	mānuka
tub	tāpu
milk	miraka
stingray	whai
sorcery	mākutu
knowledge	mātau
travel	wharau
hear	whakarongo
get	rewa
voyage	wharaunga
derivate	-nga
nest	kōhanga
floating	mānu
writing	tuhinga
existence	tauoranga
pledge	takoha
speak	kōrero
governor	kāwana
pain	mamae
burial ground	urupā
hexagon	tapaono
fossil	mātātoka
scissors	kutikuti
prison	whare herehere
religious	whare karakia
pocket	pākete
mare	hōiho uha
shirt	hāte
wow	auē
aversion	anuanu
wing	pākaukau
Anglican	Mihinare
worker	kaimahi
chicken	heihei
polish	whakamaheni
record	hopu
cat	ngeru
sexual orientation	aronga hōkaka
sexual orientation	aronga taera
sexual orientation	hōkakatanga
sexual orientation	taeratanga
fox	pōkiha
wolf	wuruhi
wolf	wuruwhi
antelope	anaterope
leopard	rēparo
leopard	rēpara
goat	nanenane
wallaby	warapī
egg	hēki
abracadabra	mangamangaiatua
marriage	mārenatanga
marry	mārena
wedding ring	rīngi mārena
bride	wahine mārena
ashamed	whakamā
autism	takiwātanga
shiny	pīata
nick	pakini
double-barrelled shotgun	tūpara
Warsaw	Pakangakite
Squalus acanthias	pīokeoke
Philesturnus	tīeke
Physeter macrocephalus	pāmu wēra
elephant	arewhana
lion	raiona
eagle	īkara
banishment	whakapakotanga
burning	kāinga
-ness	-inga
sweet potato	kūmara
trample	takatakahi
although	ahakoa
industrious	ahuwhenua
continuation	roanga
comet	unahiroa
strict	taikaha
temple	temepara
bicycle	paihikara
bind	tauwhere
krill	uraura
shrimp	kōuraura
officer	āpiha
mineral	kohuke
South Island	Kaikōura
North Island	Waitangi
Asteliaceae	whara
soil	onehunga
crossbar	kaho
corkwood	whau
island	moutere
Easter	Aranga
air	āngi
friend	takatāpui
gentle	māhū
transsexual	hinehī
left	mauī
left	whakamauī
driver	pūtāhono
interface	tāhono
interface	atanga
driver	atekōkiri
natural	pūmanawa
defragmentation	whakatōpū kongakonga
amalgamation	whakatōpū
assembled	tōpū
shrapnel	kongakonga
breakfast	parakuihi
porridge	pāreti
Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae	tūī
star	whetū
rhino	raino
gale	āwhā
disinter	hahu
sheet	hīti
Labour	Reipa
National	Nāhinara
party	rōpū
Reipa	Rōpū Reipa
Nāhinara	Rōpū Nāhinara
politic	tōrangapū
political party	rōpū tōrangapū
power	mana tōrangapū
Green Party	Rōpū Kākāriki
green	kākāriki
Tuesday	Tūrei
Wednesday	Wenerei
Thursday	Tāite
Saturday	Hātarei
end	mutunga
weekend	mutunga wiki
familial	whanaunga
pomegranate	pamakaranete
crocodile	karakotaera
dinosaur	mokonui
gecko	mokomoko
giraffe	kaki roa
gorilla	maki nui
iguana	iuana
hurricane	huripari
refugee	hunga whakaruru
thunderstorm	rautupu
save up	penapena
yam	uwhi
Melbourne	Poipiripi
lockdown	rāhuitanga
mystery	mea ngaro
mystery	pirikoko
Circus approximans	kāhu
tibia	takakaha
bulrush	raupō
indigo	tūāuri
purple	waiporoporo
brown	parauri
blue	kikorangi
pink	māwhero
blue	kahurangi
color	ngā tae
brushtail possum	paihamu
pay	utu-a
Elijah	Irāia
rust	waikura
Perth	Peraha
Adelaide	Ātaraita
koala	koāra
introductory	pepeha
strange	tupua
foreigner	tauiwi
Papua New Guinea	Papua Nūkini
Fiji	Whītī
shimmer	kārohirohi
shimmering	ārohirohi
listen	whakarangona
kindness	atawhai
passive	-tia
support	manaaki
kindness	manaakitanga
misunderstand	pōhēhē
brother	tungāne
load	utauta
passive	-kina
passive	-hia
passive	-ngia
passive	-kia
passive	-mia
passive	-ria
passive	-whia
passive	-whina
eat shit	kai hamuti
cunt	pōkokohua
