fly	frei
be	de
male	man
time	ten
I	mi
Sun	son
reside	tan
ten	tin
buy	bai
more	moro
sneaker	pata
crazy	law
do	du
free	fri
window	garden
your	yu
to	na
touch	meri
too	tu
have to	mus
where	pe
build	bow
Eudocimus ruber	flamingo
stupid	don
four	fo
in	ini
beat up	ros
annoyed	fuga
greeting	odi
arrive	kon
Sranan Tongo	Sranan
everything	ala
smoke	smoko
plantain	bana
other	tra
brother	brada
blow	bro
beautiful	moi
pray	begi
fig	figa
dew	dow
there	drape
faint	flaw
tense	span
tie	tai
squash	masi
dolt	bobo
far	fara
give	gi
bend	beni
cook	bori
boat	boto
complete	heri
sea	sé
house	oso
bore	boro
Sunday	sonde
snack	tesi
of	fu
fine	fini
iguana	agama
thanks	danki
wedding	boda
he	a
Amazon	Mason
half	AFU
flex	ploy
grandmother	oma
whole	eri
search	suku
you	unu
insecticide	flet
cast	kanti
mill	miri
beat	fon
sweet	boyo
sour	swa
starch	goma
crazy	lawman
boy	boi
holy	santa
woman	frow
free	soso
quick	gaw
thumb	doi
African	koto
gun	gon
pearl	peri
fuel	oli
arrive	doro
carve	kerfi
wage	pai
kill	kiri
stroke	kori
white	buru
have	abi
must	moe
friend	mati
throat	neki
bull	bulu
bury	beri
necklace	keti
sell	seri
true	tru
cake	kuku
lead	loto
embrace	brasa
hollow	godo
throw	iti
bogeyman	bubu
like	leki
flag	fraga
because	bika
doer	duman
happy	breiti
three	dri
kiss	bosi
run	lon
fight	feti
abundant	bogobogo
hesitate	gunya
home	kolera
burn	bron
must	musu
bite	beti
who	suma
shave	sker
look	luku
fit	fiti
listen	arki
money	moni
agouti	aguti
point	sori
agree	agri
sew	nai
very important person	heiman
touch	fasi
nothing	noti
earth	doti
equal	speri
lay	poti
greedy	gridi
elderly	grani
deity	gado
answer	piki
take	teki
hole	olo
swear	kosi
tobacco	tabaka
smooth	grati
cassava	dosi
hunt	onti
heavy	hebi
shirt	empi
prosecutor	fiskari
push	pusu
oh	tye
elephantiasis	bimba
big	hipsi
pumpkin	pampun
die	dede
stuck	fasti
roast	brai
magic	bonu
vicious	fals
captain	kapten
fast	esi
play	prei
bread roll	boru
find	feni
love	lobi
stain	flaka
sweet	dokun
big	bigi
end	kaba
because	bikasi
number	nombroe
rice	alesi
patience	pasensi
wind	winti
fun	prisirie
bore	ferferi
country	kondre
lovely	switi
language	tongo
save	oponaki
edit	kenki
Surinameses	Srananman
Javanese	Yampanesi
yes	iya
year	yari
hound	ontidagu
jealousy	dyarusu
birthday	feryari
jenever	yaneyfri
young	yongu
dress	yapon
just	yoysti
gout	yekti
girl	pikin-uma
young lady	pikinmisi
young	yonguman
carry	tyari
itch	krasi
police	skowtu
police station	skowt oso
police station	lontoso
porcelain	posren
puppet	popki
ferry	pondo
pound	pontu
cat	puspusi
clean	krin
tease	feri
pill	perki
perfume	switismeri
torch	frambo
family	famiri
family	famirman
party	fesa
congratulate	fristiri
whisper	safri taki
wrong	fowtu
fake	kor kori
guarantee	dyaranti
goose	gansi
shrimp	sarasara
soon	er'esi
flirt	freyri
photo	portreti
photo	prentyi
bottle	batra
breed	kweki
fund	fonsu
France	Franskondre
guest	fisiti
no one	nowan
daring	dekati
detective	dekta
spirit	yorka
craziness	lawlaw
goat	krabita
mysterious	dipi bere
money	paysa
loved	alobi
believe	bribi
believer	kerkisma
luck	bun-ede
luck	krinskin
luck	koloku
eye	bun-ay
likeness	gerstori
easy	kumakriki
easy	makriki
heal	dresi
healer	bonuman
healer	obiaman
enough	nofo
ready	klari
wrinkled	ployploy
buckle	gespi
dispute	kesekese
tools	wrokosani
dotted	penpeni
smell	smeri
dotted	pen peni
weight	wegi
great	kafalek
sing	singi
healthy	gesontu
yonder	yanasey
government	lanti
Maroon	granman
grass	grasi
joke	spotu
stylus	grefi
for free	fu soso
ditch	gotro
green	grun
rough	grofu
greediness	bigi-ay
greedy	gridiman
greedy	tap ala
greedy	hayra
guinea pig	dyinipi
great	furu
grandfather	granpa
shark	sarki
cock	kaka fowru
hair	wiwiri
fireplace	brantmiri
hasty	gruba
lizard	lagadisa
hang	anga
hammer	amra
hand	ambeyri
hammock	amaka
hard	tranga
Lord	Masragado
help	yepi
aid	yepiman
lord	masra
hell	didbrikondre
hot	faya
hashish	gandya
hate	wrak
water	watra
token	memre
without	sondro
take care of	sorgu
suck	soygi
sister	sisa
so many	someni
sigh	soktu
eel	snekfisi
anvil	ambesi
worship	anbegi
attention	notisi
token	prakseri
seize	grabu
hear	yere
stare	waki
leader	edeman
earth	gron
ass	ka-olo
monkey	yapi yapi
monkey	keskesi
proposal	skeyn
tap	tyopu
ass	bakasey
vulture	opete
hesitate	draydray
eight	ayti
oh	woy
broken	broko
agree	kruderi
descendence	rutu
already	wansi
only	wawan
everything	alamala
although	ofskon
all	alasortu
begging	tanyitanyi
ambition	ambisi
civil servant	lantibakra
countryman	kondreman
Sranan	Sranan Tongo
cigar	sigara
church	dinari
woman	mui
group	grupu
sweep	figi
differently	tra fasi
warimbo	pagara
dollar	dala
quick	gawgaw
telephone call	bèl
know	sabi
small	pikin
begin	bigin
before	bifo
abandon	libi
abdomen	ondrobere
abdominal	berebanti
sesame	abongra
fifty	banku
empty stomach	angribere
bless	blesi
slime	loli
wheel	wiri
resemble	gersi
bier	dragi
latex	balata
shopkeeper	omu
skin	buba
bitter orange	alanya
bullet	bugru
hold	hori
quarrel	trobi
bank	bangi
complain	kragi
door	greni
young	wenke
knit	brei
black	blaka
dress up	prodo
five	feyfi
seven	seybi
nine	neygi
day name	deinen
extra	baksis
dream	dren
district	distrikti
dance	dansi
egret	sabaku
lie	didon
old	gangan
scrub	gruma
grow	gro
daytime	deiten
discrimination	desko
flee	lowe
washtub	beki
pearl barley	groto
interest	interseri
hurt	soro
eat	nyan
pile	ipi
turn	drai
smoke	bokun
smoked	ameti
catch	fanga
better	betre
other	abrasei
Amerindian	ingi
fold	fow
if	efu
hit	naki
everywhere	alape
feel	firi
pair	bruku
ghost	yeye
anchor	ankra
drum	dron
go away	gwe
think	denki
afraid	frede
drop	dropu
leprous	bwasi
gullet	gorogoro
fine	butu
vehicle	wagi
new	nyun
Guianan	bonboni
witchcraft	wisi
hunger	angri
rear	bakawan
thousand	dusun
cloth	duku
dig	diki
much	hilahila
unrest	dyugudyugu
punishment	strafu
political party	partèi
magic	tofru
curse	fluku
dietary	trefu
lay	mesre
haul	srepi
timber	temre
work	wroko
steal	fufuru
used to	gwenti
warn	warskow
slaughter	srakti
laugh	lafu
experience	ondrofeni
rusty	frustu
baptise	dopu
lose one's way	ferdwal
annoy	muilek
kick	skopu
rub	griti
ride	rèi
outside	boiti
bean	bonki
witness	kotoigi
green sea turtle	krape
compartment	faki
dive	dukrun
try	proberi
dark	dungru
evil	takru
write	skrifi
fall	fadon
jump	dyompo
underhanded	bakabaka
tire	banti
sweet	fiadu
tattle	konkru
stutter	gagu
Holy Spirit	Santa Yeye
pregnant	bereman
black	bonkoro
high	heihei
yesterday	esde
beer	dyogo
magical	kromanti
stocking	kowsu
sugar	sukru
food	nyanyan
news	nyunsu
orange	apresina
grave	grebi
right away	dalèk
guilder	golu
bundle	bosu
dragonfly	grasbarki
white	bakra
banana	bakba
Dutch	Bakratongo
German	Doisritongo
French	Franstongo
unstable	degedege
vaginal	faya watra
Netherlands	Bakrakondre
canoe	kruyara
Death	Fedi
criminal	abanyi
OK	afèn
far	farawe
near	krosbei
one by one	wan fru wan
how are you	fa a waka
how are you	fa a e go
how are you	fa yu tan
how are you	fa fu yu
how are you	fa yu de
slumber	dyonko
