be	may
broth	aam
irregular	abnormal
free	libre
or	o
although	man
this one	are
mockery	kutya
hide	tago
human	tao
gasoline	gas
Malawi	Malawi
Uganda	Uganda
radar	radar
president	presidente
when	noon
beast	animal
and	at
disgust	yak
plants	upas
world	mundo
kiss	beso
group	grupo
birthmark	balat
return	balik
prostitute mother	PI
burying	baon
overreactive	OA
bay	look
foreign accent	slang
grenade	granada
large caldron	kawa
weak	lampa
butcher	matador
slaughterhouse	matadero
animal thigh	pata
chat	chat
regret	sana
act	simba
we	kami
act	sama
Indian	Bombay
ace	alas
uncle	mama
bait	pain
assassination	lingo
priest	among
plain	simple
ladies	bag
tower	tore
shoe polish	betun
basis	base
abacus	abako
heirloom	mana
Japanese sword	katana
too	rin
what	ano
object	hanap
katha	kata
coat hanger	hanger
bisikleta	ni
three	tres
one	uno
book	libro
obviously	natural
bent	kilo
refined manners	yumi
already	na
kayo	po
yet	pa
bull	toro
speak	Tagalog
path	daan
holy	banal
cinema	sine
dark pigmentation	negro
act	tapas
Philippines	Valencia
destiny	destino
eagerness	ola
fight	away
computer	ordenador
dad	papa
according to people	raw
best friend	bes
buzzer	timbre
language	Cebuano
heated discussion	debate
earth	lupa
let's see	aber
pound	libra
heart	puso
beat	pintig
but	pero
pen	pluma
boss	bos
gasoline	gaas
rising	alma
holy	santo
Holy Week	Semana Santa
pencil	mongol
Esdras	Ezra
money	pera
fairy	ada
present	moderno
my	akin
woman	ale
wolf	lobo
amen	amen
spring	batis
Boracay	Malay
suffer	balian
fond	barat
rope	tali
beetle	uang
care	ingat
always	lagi
hello	musta
stupid	sano
number	numero
pung	pong
elder brother	kuya
no	di
love	mahal
money	anda
of	sa
function	andar
watcher	abang
rajah	raha
of	ng
point	punto
two	dos
rehearsal	ensayo
vodka	bodka
doubt	duda
petrol	gasolina
not	di-
sheath	saha
hunchback	kuba
wave	tsunami
abuse	abuso
table	mesa
second	segundo
cackle	kakak
salt	asin
harp	alpa
envelope	sobre
unprovoked attack	dale
lightness	gaan
coconut milk	gata
alb	alba
emperor	emperador
dyke	dike
pirate	pirata
criticism	ergo
here	dine
too	din
meter	metro
ash	abo
rotten	puka
key	susi
drug	droga
me	ko
condom	kondom
first	una
dry	kula
term of address	tata
open	waag
teacher	maestro
vagina	puke
bed	kama
pencil	lapis
vulva	kiki
zebra	sebra
politics	politika
vine	saga
mathematics	matematika
bulldog	buldog
cord	sate
five	lima
notch	sangat
twelve	dose
abandoned	abandonado
nun	madre
alarm clock	despertador
ambush	abat
lawyer	abogado
tally	paya
mass	misa
allophony	-an
blow	singa
prone	-in
illegal immigrant	TNT
aeta	ita
kalayaan	laya
parrot	loro
sword	espada
frequency	limit
na	anim
parish priest	pastor
size	laki
arrive	dumating
become	maging
bring	dalhin
buy	bumili
leave	umalis
come closer	lumapit
drink	uminom
eat	kumain
eat	kainin
give	magbigay
go	magpatuloy
have	magkaroon
long live	mabuhay
live	manirahan
love	umibig
make	gumawa
meet	magtagpo
need	mangailangan
return	magbalik
say	magsabi
stay	matira
stay	tumira
take	kunin
understand	maintidihan
who	sino
drunk	lasing
breakfast	agahan
breakfast	almusal
lunch	tanghalian
dinner	hapunan
afternoon snack	meryenda
cheese	keso
district	distrito
yes	oo
place	pook
opinion	wari
pure	puro
line	pila
stone	adobe
low tone	anas
raft	balsa
comrade	brad
act	dais
great noise	gimbal
hey	hoy
oblique case	kay
tatters	lawing
drip	sago
worship	samba
feather	sima
wraparound skirt	tapis
elegant	taring
rain	ulan
kindness	bait
worth	bale
liked	trip
wholesale purchase	aap
when	nang
lively	bibo
wheat	trigo
flour	harina
joke	biro
ode	oda
appeal	apela
hara-kiri	harakiri
fruit	bunga
blowgun	sumpit
sex	seks
lesbian	tomboy
na	dalawa
na	tatlo
na	apat
na	walo
ten	sampu
na	siyam
free	malaya
Christmas	pasko
hawk	lawin
radio	radyo
whore	pok-pok
hey	oy
find out	alamin
block	bloke
language	Filipino
sweet acacia	aroma
Monday	lunes
Wednesday	Miyerkules
Thursday	Huwebes
Friday	Biyernes
Saturday	Sabado
Sunday	Linggo
February	Pebrero
March	Marso
June	Hunyo
July	Hulyo
September	Setyembre
October	Oktubre
November	Nobyembre
December	Disyembre
Philippines	Kapampangan
Ilocano	Ilokano
they	sila
Iraq	Irak
fool	bobo
nod	tango
declaration	salita
at once	dagli
e.g.	hal
sun	adlaw
boy	taking
die	dado
direction	banda
guess	hula
daisy	margarita
arch	arko
arsenic	arseniko
mannequin	manikin
intense	pita
ship	barko
vote	boto
glans penis	burat
penis	titi
allegedly	umano
cruel	brutal
problem	problema
here	dito
in	nasa
sap	yago
fist	kamao
pillow	unan
expression	ya
idea	haka
patrol	ronda
seal	poka
insane	loko
fine	multa
plan	plano
minute	minuto
corn	mais
only	lang
doubt	agam
address	adres
big rip	haha
column	poste
circumcision	tuli
ignorant	maang
kris	kalis
yard	yarda
yacht	yate
bear	oso
iodine	yodo
yo-yo	yoyo
mean	maldito
trend	uso
Uranus	Urano
boron	boro
want	gusto
irritation	asap
bastard	bastardo
mucus	dita
you	ka
symbol	simbolo
Philippines	Pilipinas
abacus	abakus
female lawyer	abogada
water pump	poso
eye	mata
desperate	desperado
effects unit	pedal
art	arte
sangkatutak	nosebleed
arrival	dating
element	elemento
paper	papel
savanna	sabana
Africa	Aprika
peanut	mani
Mars	Marte
Saturn	Saturno
Neptune	Neptuno
stupid	boba
century	siglo
hit	palo
dark-skinned	morena
tanned	moreno
cooked rice	kanin
rotten	panis
Mary	Maria
guitar	gitara
species	lipa
pepper	sili
gullible	tanga
act	duro
route	ruta
North America	Amerika
weak	mahina
nutgrass	mutha
gift	regalo
ah	a
April	Abril
Adam	Adan
August	Agosto
homosexual	Barbie
Batangas	Bonbon
company	Co
title	Don
January	Enero
appellation	Ka
Tuesday	Martes
May	Mayo
African	Negro
Pope	Papa
species	papaw
Christmas	Pasko
title	Prince
lord	poon
wrong	mali
deer	usa
your	mo
belt	korea
plate	plato
fabric	sinamay
prisoner	preso
Monday	Lunes
fold	tupi
chaff	ipa
abundant	saksa
week	linggo
planet	planeta
no	hindi
height	taas
six	sais
younger sister	nene
one fifth	kalima
mosque	masjid
Islam	Medina
damage	sira
Chinese	GI
grain	amas
consenting	haya
dominoes	domino
maiden	binibini
jump	talon
Aristotle	Aristoteles
understood	gets
boy	iho
hook	saat
Japanese	Nihongo
slack	lundo
design	sabat
feces	tae
entrenchment	pimpin
sharpness	talas
fine	pino
storeroom	bodega
species	sari
joining	lagom
actor	aktor
blood	kato
prostitute	puta
time	tagal
beautiful	nenee
moustache	bigote
clothes	damit
place	lugar
puppy	tuta
shore	kosta
button	botones
queen	reyna
balcony	balkon
bamboo stick	taka
culture	kultura
light	kanti
ink	tinta
stingray	pagi
ox	goto
lean	sandal
rice flour	galapong
steered wheel	kingpin
according to people	daw
mixture	halo-halo
lawsuit	demanda
scent	amoy
chestnut munia	maya
drop	patak
Buddha	Buda
round building	rotunda
basilica	basilika
comet	kometa
lighthouse	parola
hope	asa
treaty	tratado
farewell	despedida
age	edad
suitcase	maleta
detained	detenido
mermaid	sirena
firefighter	bombero
bishop	obispo
case	asunto
compassion	awa
dough	masa
shelf	estante
stool	taburete
wardrobe	aparador
row	hilera
crippleness	balda
entrance	entrada
this	ito
surprise	sorpresa
tourist	turista
and	pati
mandate	mandato
tone	tono
menstruation	regla
wire	alambre
bib	babero
use	golpe
argument	argumento
respect	respeto
insult	insulto
fall down	tumba
remains	labi
bomb	bomba
dignity	dignidad
style	estilo
throne	trono
group	tropa
rubber	goma
toilet	inodoro
solider	militar
department	departamento
model	modelo
tourism	turismo
hung	juts
badly beaten	gambol
vulgar	bulgar
deep sea	laot
doctor	doktor
correct	tama
special	di-pangkaraniwan
impressive	lodi
irritation	inis
ours	ata
layer	saray
door	pinto
cock	kasa
lalaki	ang
impossible	imposible
encasement end-to-end	uma
summary execution	salvage
low	unga
funnel	embudo
feces	pupu
hut	kubo
long slash	aak
Diospyros blancoi	mabolo
bring	magdala
angry shout	dara
priest	pari
Visayan	Bisaya
rabbit	buot
umbrella	payong
neck	leeg
profession	-ista
picked	pitas
traitor	lilo
characteristic swaying motion	kampang
crossing	sambal
cue	tako
whip	latigo
dipper	tabo
aid	ayuda
ivory	garing
tastelessness	yapa
small	sawing
poor	pobre
female shaman	babaylan
wrap	abrigo
monarch	sultan
fluke	tsamba
scorpion	iwi
dollar	dolar
vigilante	vigilante
grease	grasa
thrush	tordo
accusation	habla
light	sindi
administrator	administrador
metal	kansa
letter	letra
saltiness	alat
modus operandi	modus
when	kailan
gracefulness	garbo
republic	republika
tattoo	tato
oppressed	api
insane	loka
pistol	pistola
level	pawpaw
temple	sentido
catfish	hito
substance	sapid
treatment	trato
pilgrim	peregrino
shy	torpe
bow	pana
important	importante
turned down	basted
bamboo split	bila
curry	kari
pants	pantalon
gound	muta
sign	tanda
carbuncle	sula
king	hari
front	harap
bruise	pasa
squeezing out	piga
choose	pili
stab	taga
sheep	tupa
take	kuha
cook	kusi
corner	kanto
song	kanta
filled	hanga
fish boiled	pesa
people	tribu
fire	siga
lascivious	kiri
axe handle	landa
province	Pangasinan
small split	litas
pint	pitis
favored customer	suki
oppress	siil
choked	sakal
James	Santiago
Saint Joseph	San Jose
bellicose	pinga
Arab	Arabe
root	ugat
alcoholic beverage	alak
planted	bakal
open	buka
mountain	bundok
thickness	kapal
able	kaya
weakness	hina
time	oras
island	pulo
experiencing	danas
purchase	bili
year	taon
laugh	tawa
goods	tinda
calf	binti
embroidery	burda
calf	guya
spirit	sigla
egg	itlog
style	balintawak
Casuarina equisetifolia	aguho
Philippine mahogany	almon
tree	anubing
purple	banaba
ogre	kapre
former	dati
pillowcase	punda
blouse	blusa
conduct	asal
apron	tapi
addict	adik
mango	mangga
ballpoint pen	bolpen
white rice cake	puto
rent	upa
possible	posible
species	nami
dye	tina
nail	kuko
misbehaving child	kulit
modesty	bini
head	ulo
foolish	urat
Pandanus	pandan
bowl	kalo
saltwater filter	tasik
cry	tangis
crack	uka
because	kasi
washing	laba
sky	langit
complete	utas
from	mula
dragon	naga
disease	sakit
beauty	ganda
plate	pinggan
weight	bigat
something given	bigay
south	timog
husked	bigas
mouth	bibig
bite	kagat
act	inom
pig	baboy
new	bago
ray	sinag
cat	pusa
white	puti
immigration agents	migmig
chicken	manok
sail	layag
black	itim
love	ibig
flow	agos
spinach	halom
fly	langaw
pananamit	pan-
paid daily	araw
clothing	baro
die	matay
mother	ina
Filipino	Pilipino
Filipino	Pinoy
Filipino	Noypi
can	keri
tongue	dila
marble	holen
hilly country	lubang
eat	kain
cabbage palm	buli
account	ulat
sandpaper	liha
egg	lisa
taste	lasa
earliness	aga
pawn	peon
leave	hamo
stitch	tahi
garbage	basura
apparatus	aparato
alms	limos
Danish	Danes
mashed	kamas
swamp	lati
OK	sige
annoying	peste
turn	lingon
immature mullet	kapak
aspirin	aspirina
dysentery	iti
notice	puna
anointment	himo
placed together side by side	dani
dirt	amos
arm	bisig
river mouth	wawa
roulette	ruleta
and	saka
uncle	amain
ass	asno
forked	bika
supplication	samo
tied loosely	haso
eight	otso
delegate	sugo
if	kung
water jug	saro
nothing	wala
tease	makulit
peculiar odor	ango
drinking alcohol	toma
immoral	inmoral
entire	entero
constipation	tibi
wristwatch	relo
public	madla
grandfather	lolo
aunt	tita
ball	bola
specifically	mismo
cholera	kolera
rebel	rebelde
torn	punit
purple	lila
hey	huy
fight	warla
immediately	agad
star	astro
spit	dura
saliva	laway
anise	anis
scarce	dalang
mind	guni
ylang ylang	ilang-ilang
border	gilid
kidnapper	kidnaper
minute hand	minutero
kilometer	kilometro
stupid person	engot
accustomed	gamay
queen	sultana
Holy Cross	Santa Cruz
side	piling
carrying pole	pingga
fail	palya
forehead	noo
discord	alit
plot	pakana
act	kantot
paint	pintura
ethnic group	negrito
Sibuyan Sea	Kalibo
Panay	Aklan
abusive	abusado
armed	armado
boot	bota
it depends	depende
canvas	lona
Philippines	barangay
Sanson	Samson
down payment	adelanto
adornment	adorno
alarm	alarma
in a hurry	apurado
act	apura
coin	aras
weapon	armas
rancidity	anta
lateness	atraso
fasting	ayuno
known	batid
law	batas
time	beses
boot	botas
deposit	deposito
desperate	desesperado
discouraged	desmayado
discouragement	desmaya
dynamite	dinamita
forgiveness	dispensa
double	doble
enamel	esmalte
spending	gasta
hindrance	estorbo
gravel	graba
outrageous	grabe
pull	hila
washing	hilamos
touch	hipo
blow	hipan
tassel	lambo
raft	lamo
meaning	laman
tombstone	lapida
raisin	pasas
suffering	pasmado
bet raise	logro
pilot	piloto
peso	piso
chalkboard	pisara
Jonah	Jonas
handcuffs	posas
dentist	dentista
polished	pulido
pulse	pulso
softened	mamad
maneuver	maniobra
fat	mataba
sharp	mataras
molestation	molesta
Italian	Italyano
breadfruit	rimas
oyster	talaba
start	simula
title	titulo
spoon-feed	subo
alimony	sustento
equal	tumbas
movement	usad
second gear	segunda
putang ina mo	putang ina mo
wala	walang hiya
feast day	pista
driver	motorista
beer	serbesa
green tree ant	antik
bird	ibon
crab	alimango
yawn	hikab
crazy	ulol
slowness	umat
alabaster	alabastro
prison	oblo
skull	bungo
vagina	pepe
wrath	poot
worn	luma
joking	goyo
act	sali
ruby	rubi
transmission	hawa
moon	buwan
inch	sandali
instant	saglit
ng tanghali	n.t.
noon	tanghali
afternoon	hapon
morning	umaga
ng umaga	n.u.
ng hapon	n.h.
ng gabi	n.g.
herpes	buni
athlete	atleta
garrote	garote
string	pisi
lavatory	banyo
uterus	matris
mallet	maso
sap	katas
dressiness	gara
Vatican	Vaticano
estuary	estero
cigar	sigaro
cardboard	karton
movie star	artista
alcohol	alkohol
herb doctor	albularyo
bribe	payola
governor	gobernador
group	barkada
hair	buhok
flower	bulaklak
arm	braso
farm	bukid
star	bituin
ocean	dagat
addition	dagdag
because	dahil
reason	dahilan
must	dapat
feeling	damdamin
deceit	daya
octopus	salabay
girl	iha
antelope	antilope
eclipse	laho
respectful term of address	mang
taunt	tuya
dry	tuyo
disgust	suya
stake	tulos
which	alin
eyewitness	saksi
tiny insect	tuma
Christ	Kristo
lapsed	lipas
flour noodle	bami
ring	singsing
buoy	boya
prolapsed uterus	buwa
ungrateful	ingrato
third	bokal
awning	kayan
tree	dao
mooring cable	sao
set	kang
kick	sipa
tilted	ungi
botany	botanika
climate	klima
small	paho
Welsh	Gales
dirty	tubal
type	uri
ignorant	ignorante
pierce	saksak
detached	bakbak
parrot	papagayo
unroofed	papas
abyss	bangin
goodbye	babay
windbag	halhal
basketball	basketbol
battalion	batalyon
trombone	trombon
Timothy	Timoteo
strip	bulay
atom	atomo
semantics	semantika
equilibrium	balanse
world	daigdig
cabinet	kabinet
captain	kapitan
clinic	klinika
conductor	konduktor
consul	konsul
coupon	kupon
byproduct wastage	yaga
ethics	etika
lemon	limon
dominant	dominante
permission	permiso
minimalism	minimalismo
meeting	miting
molecule	molekula
responsible	responsable
teacher	maestra
weave	lala
spleen	pali
marshy	malati
Apollo	Apolo
mention	gambi
knock-kneed	piki
cactus	kaktus
soft	malata
round building	rotonda
asylum	asilo
setting up	hain
stove	kalan
shaved	panit
speed	tulin
clothing	suot
widespread	lakit
scar	pilat
slight crack	lamat
flat	sarat
drip	tulo
close-cropped	anot
dish	menudo
right	kanan
honest	tapat
short	maiksi
recite	tumula
grass	damo
teach	turo
calmness	kalma
immorality	inmoralidad
shriek	tili
interdiction	sahat
where	saan
fort	kuta
deceit	liho
vulva	puki
incense	dupa
borax	pinse
smaller end	tingi
bit	tinga
any	paina
betel leaf	samat
interruption	likat
bark	takin
translation	salin
appointment	tipan
odor wet	palot
writing	sulat
curly	kulot
filching	kupit
strait	kipot
thug	maton
godfather	padrino
dose	dosis
dish	mami
senator	senador
nanometre	nanometro
departure	alis
admiral	almirante
space	siha
silid	silid-aklatan
dented	piing
small	munti
Chinese person	punga
rail	riles
heap	bunton
Elisha	Eliseo
appellation	sanse
social position	antas
female Filipino	Filipina
inch	pulgada
passport	pasaporte
even if	maski
Poland	Polonya
idle talk	abla
plumber	tubero
Panchen Lama	Panchen Lama
suburb	naik
all	pulos
buttock	pigi
obvious	halata
slit	silat
literature	literatura
bet	pusta
bean sprout	toge
Thomas	Tomas
movement	kilos
act	punas
anything hang	tawing
sampu	sampo
pileup	karambola
olive	oliba
heat	init
carving	ukit
epidemic	salot
antenna	antena
barricade	barikada
cricket	kriket
acronym	akronim
alpaca	alpaka
analytics	analitika
crown	korona
hard tweak	pingot
man	kelot
assembly	asamblea
whose	nino
goodbye	paalam
chandelier	aranya
intense feeling	muhi
kilogram	kilogramo
duty	yama
there	doon
perimeter	perimetro
anthrax	antraks
each	kada
speed	bilis
small stream	sapa
bucket	balde
crowd	lipon
carry	tapon
milk	gatas
ton	tonelada
ticket	tiket
mire	burak
eye patch	babat
busted	buking
garbage collector	basurero
yes	opo
close-cropped	panot
adversary	kaalit
discord	alitan
ascent	ahon
sensibleness	tino
quail	pugo
character	karakter
baby bottle	dede
helicopter	helikoptero
wait	teka
social	tribo
ancestry	lipi
vice	bise
cancer	kanser
baker	panadero
mischievousness	gaso
not much	gasino
serenade	harana
recently	kanina
dripping	usang
broiled	panggang
sama	sama-sama
monster	mamaw
transfer	lipat
shape	korte
labyrinth	laberinto
spermaceti	esperma
hoe	asada
bad luck	malas
why	bakit
handsome	guwapo
fish	isda
what a pity	sayang
panting	hangos
support	werpa
other	iba
outside	labas
document	papeles
mancala	sungka
gram	gramo
spirit	espiritu
accusation	bintang
person	epal
blood	dugo
rise	sikat
goat	kambing
natin	namin
embalmer	embalsamador
inclining	baling
underlayer	sapin
tent	tolda
brandy	brandi
fat	taba
special kind	siid
coup d'état	kudeta
house	bahay
nose	ilong
communist	komunista
raspy	halak
species	paka
horse	kabayo
repulsive odor	angis
weaken	humina
endurance	tiis
accordion	akordeon
small slit	bitas
Russia	Rusya
Romanian	Romana
sex worker	GRO
symbolism	simbolismo
synagogue	sinagoga
mean	maldita
Pampanga	Pampango
comment	komento
boomerang	bumerang
bolo	tabak
spoon	kutsara
brain	utak
eaves	ambi
dwarf coconut tree	tarakan
weakness	lapok
diplomat	diplomata
close	sara
gallant	galante
bandit	bandido
agate	agata
Lebanon	Libano
dirt	amol
Illicium anisatum	sanki
ready	handa
light	halas
vow	panata
scissors	gunting
slingshot	tirador
coño	konyo
disbursement	abono
leg pillow	abrasador
pool	lawa
cigarette	titis
millilitre	mililitro
wind	hangin
twine	hapin
bitterness	pait
decade	dekada
author	awtor
alligator	kaiman
almost	halos
blame	isisi
hey	uy
play	landi
useless	inutil
poppy	amapola
cream	krema
jaw	panga
cornered	piit
surveyor	agrimensor
tap	sungal
pinch	kurot
clitoris	tilin
viscosity	lapot
squid	pusit
first	lipot
nearness	lapit
mischievousness	harot
creaking sound	kalit
take responsibility	akuin
grip	kapit
accident	sakuna
thank you	salamat
kind	salakat
subject	asignatura
here	eto
canal	kanal
premonition	kaba
cheating	amam
summarize	buurin
Mark	Marcos
Manila hemp	abaka
custom	wani
fellow resident	kababayan
tailor	sastre
Noah	Noe
company	kompanya
awning	sibi
asbestos	asbesto
gun	baril
apostle	apostol
just	naman
apostate	apostata
rosemary	romero
said	saad
cactus	kakto
true	tuga
beefsteak	bistek
fund	pondo
sieve	salaan
method	paraan
species	bibe
dangling	lawlaw
open-mouthed	anga
wither	lanta
onomastics	onomastika
cannon	kanyon
luster	sarang
quiver	talanga
swallow	golondrina
asshole	kupal
Matthew	Mateo
piano	piyano
samurai	samuray
disturbance	alboroto
tame	maamo
always	parati
kumusta ka na	kumusta ka na
well-adjusted	lapat
part	lako
rag	trapo
against	kontra
freedom	kalayaan
amaranth	amaranto
cognac	konyak
decrease	hupa
organdy	organdi
blue	asul
yellow	dilaw
green	berde
green	luntian
beautiful	maganda
ugly	pangit
evil	masama
closed	sarado
rough	magaspang
smooth	makinis
tall	matangkad
smart	matalino
lacking	kulang
happy	masaya
deep	malalim
shady	malilim
famous	bantog
happy	maligaya
rude	bastos
unusual	kakaiba
brave	matapang
rich	mayaman
difficult	mahirap
big	malaki
small	maliit
wide	malawak
bitter	mapait
sweet	matamis
delicious	masarap
peacefully quiet	payapa
revenge	ganti
many	marami
thick	makapal
thin	manipis
high	matayog
pretty	marikit
sad	malumbay
diligent	masipag
lazy	tamad
little	kaunti
nervous	nerbyoso
jolly	masayahin
strong	matibay
naughty	salbahe
clear	malinaw
stormy	mabagyo
greedy	suwapang
sleepy	inaantok
active	masigla
healthy	malusog
weak	marupok
shallow	mababaw
lazy	batugan
narrow	makitid
resourceful	maparaan
luck	suwerte
tired	pagod
flat	piyut
bulging	nakaumbok
stretched	unat
huge animal	higante
enough	sapat
thoughtful	maalalahanin
costly	magastos
gluttonous	matakaw
sour	maasim
generous	mapagbigay
sensible	matino
tagilo	tatsulok
constant	matiyaga
cranky	pikon
fragrant	mabango
tasty	malasa
overflowing	umaapaw
skilled	magaling
bouncy	matalbog
skinny	payat
sharp	matulis
blunt	upod
dark	madilim
bright	maliwanag
far	malayo
near	malapit
light	magaan
heavy	mabigat
hard	matigas
soft	malambot
class	klase
joining	lapi
mayonnaise	mayonesa
Bicol	Bikol
godfather	kumpare
passionate	mapusok
spleen	limpa
carriage	karo
rickshaw	traysikel
sardines	sardinas
rebellious	sutil
lacking	kapos
inspector	inspektor
wedge	kalang
thermos	termos
delicious consistency	ligat
stock	patas
ghost	multo
they	siya
convulsion	taol
there	hayan
enemy	kabaka
Chinese hibiscus	gumamela
sleeveless undershirt	sando
pimple	ligata
province	Pampanga
driven	aboy-aboy
oleander	adelpa
eagle	agila
pressing	diin
follower	alagad
cotton	algodon
piggy bank	alkansiya
tar	alkitran
threatening gesture	amba
lullaby	aloy
northeast monsoon	amihan
pluralize	mga
premonition	andam
amulet	anting-anting
gall	apdo
appendicitis	apendisitis
lime	apog
article	artikulo
waning	pagas
sulfur	asupre
attack	atake
pickle	atsara
woman	babae
railroad car	bagon
chord	bagting
typhoon	bagyo
flood	baha
codfish	bakalaw
warn	balaan
throw	balabag
fine hair	balahibo
rainbow	balangaw
magnetism	balani
swindler	balasubas
mung bean	balatong
crippled	baldado
information	balita
ballot paper	balota
soft ray	banaag
sultriness	banas
cadaver	bangkay
sidewalk	bangketa
woven mat	banig
motto	bansag
threat	banta
guard	bantay
sterile	baog
steamship	bapor
playing card	baraha
barber	barbero
varnish	barnis
slightly wet	basa-basa
brawl	basag-ulo
legislature	batasan
nape	batok
guava	bayabas
border	baybay
benediction	bendisyon
female genitalia	bibingka
captured	bihag
exposed	bilad
prisoner	bilanggo
co-sibling-in-law	bilas
errand	bilin
bachelor	binata
seed	binhi
window	bintana
visitor	bisita
vice	bisyo
hanging	bitay
gallows	bitayan
conscience	budhi
lifting	buhat
sweetness	tamis
open	bukad
fully open	bukadkad
front	bukana
open	buksan
meteor	bulalakaw
golden	bulawan
approved	aprobado
sadist	sadista
price	halaga
acid	asido
mole	taling
young	bulig
smut	buling
collision	bunggo
beard	bungot
disclosure	bunyag
waterfall	busay
immaculate	busilak
break	buslot
goodness	buti
wart	butig
glitter	dabdab
emergency call	dagas
sap	dagta
leaf	dahon
mudfish	dalag
young	dalaga
young girl	dalagita
visit	dalaw
impertinent talk	daldal
pure	dalisay
attendance	dalo
pickled fruit	dalok
breadth	damak
stinginess	damot
lagoon	danaw
wastefulness	sakmata
festive decoration	dayan
devotion	debosyon
democracy	demokrasya
discussion	diskusyon
doctrine	doktrina
document	dokumento
drama	dula
appearance	dulog
pass by	dumaan
bleed	dumugo
pull out	dumukot
cradle	duyan
dugong	duyong
janitor	dyanitor
knowledge	edukasyon
example	ehemplo
exercise	ehersisyo
eclipse	eklipse
electricity	elektrisidad
elephant	elepante
embassy	embahada
ambassador	embahador
scandal	eskandalo
large hand brush	eskoba
cram	merienda
astute	tuso
handsome	yapo
sculptor	eskultor
Holy Spirit	Espiritu Santo
pupil	estudyante
foolish	gago
mandolin	mandolina
repentance	sisi
embalming	embalsama
arrogance	taras
normal attack	normalin
laziness	katamaran
loud laughter	halakhak
tickle	kilikiti
medicine	gamot
French	Pranses
depression	depresyon
garage	garahe
fuel	gatong
part-time job	raket
branch	sanga
well-hung	daks
large boa constrictor	banyas
marquess	markes
witchcraft	gaway
starch	gawgaw
comfort	ginhawa
sautéed	gisa
grace	grasya
faucet	gripo
age	gulang
south	habagat
pursuit	hagad
ribbon	laso
analytic	analitiko
love handle	bilbil
lamp	lampara
caramel	karamelo
charcoal	karbon
part	lanting
province	probinsiya
attention	limi
able	puwede
fork	tinidor
blue	bughaw
tetanus	tetano
bar	tiho
score	puntos
opportunist	oportunista
wok	kawali
cigarette	yosi
disgracing	halay
post	haligi
for example	halimbawa
flag	bandila
foolishness	katangahan
car	kotse
use	sasakyan
act	maneho
act	dagos
retort	pakli
fruit	prutas
break	pusak
frog	palaka
proper	waso
negosyo	sari-sari store
steering wheel	manibela
Philippines	Pinas
posh	sosyal
work	trabaho
seminarist	seminarista
mutual aid	bayanihan
etc.	atbp.
movement forward	abante
respectful term of address	aling
school	paaralan
pag	pag-aaral
ability	kakayahan
light scar	pikat
rose	rosas
potato	patatas
cement	semento
court hearing	bista
slight scratch	galos
expenses	gastos
zero	sero
bucket	timba
Dionisia	Dionisio
Spain	peninsulares
strawberry	presas
large eel	palos
German	Aleman
Germany	Alemanya
American	Amerikano
Bible	Bibliya
Good Friday	Biyernes Santo
Mrs.	Ginang
Mister	Ginoo
Greek	Griyego
Japanese	Hapon
Judas	Hudas
Jewish	Hudyo
English	Ingles
Chinese	Intsik
address	Itoy
Castilian	Kastila
Korean	Koreano
confirmation	kumpil
Mister	Mang
Creator	Maykapal
Wednesday	Miyerkoles
Christmas Eve	Notsebuwena
Thanksgiving	Pasasalamat
mathematics	sipnayan
statistics	palaulatan
calculus	tayahan
square root	pariugat
east	silangan
Far East	Silanganan
All Saints Day	Todos Los Santos
China	Tsina
alphabet	abakada
division	sangi
there be	meron
banker	kulas
longing	asam
virama	᜔
flea	pulgas
gallon	galon
hinge	bisagra
pearl	perlas
orange	puras
there	roon
complaint	reklamo
you	ikaw
money	salapi
corporal	kabo
language	wika
God	Diyos
god	diyos
oh my God	Diyos ko
cider	sidras
foolish	shunga
grassland	damuhan
cross	krus
mister	manong
paki-	pa-
madam	manang
common nickname	Nene
provisional	latok
telephone	telepono
rail	tikling
freeman	timawa
balance	timbangan
gem	hiyas
drawn up	hugot
popular	tanyag
sheriff	serip
spear	sibat
join	sabak
attack	salakay
roll	gili
ingrate	busong
ounce	onsa
fierceness	bangis
act	aboy
decorative glass bead	abaloryo
lima bean	patani
folding fan	abaniko
midnight horror	abang-abang
wedding	kasal
strike	aklas
waltz	balse
jelly	halea
having	maanghit
name	ngalan
candy	kendi
teakettle	takuri
Filipino	Tsinoy
avenue	abenida
notification	abiso
odd	abnoy
backward movement	atras
pickaxe	patik
carriage	kalesa
attractive woman	bebot
mirror	salamin
ice	yelo
drunkard	tomador
morgue	morge
remedy	lunas
path	landas
caesio	lapas
stepmother	madrasta
cucumber	pipino
cute	kyut
doughnut	donat
Choi	Chua
colony	kolonya
club	batuta
butterfly knife	balisong
flotsam	layak
comprehended	talos
female governor	gobernadora
bayonet	bayoneta
nursemaid	yaya
how many	ilan
propagandist	propagandista
prize	premyo
viceroy	birey
emerald	esmeralda
creation	gawa
fictitious story	gawa-gawa
envy	inggit
thing	bagay
plastic	plastik
remnant	simi
tofu	tokwa
spouse	asawa
monkey	unggoy
carabao	kalabaw
cilantro	kulantro
force	puwersa
road	kalsada
garden	lagwerta
high	mataas
coffee	kape
sibling	kapatid
learned	maalam
tray	bandeha
hypnosis	hipnosis
meat	karne
rabies	rabis
purple yam	ube
sharp point	tilos
countryman	Kabayan
embankment	sabal
avocado	abokado
can opener	abrelata
knickknack	abubot
subsidy	abuloy
adventurer	abenturero
goal	adhika
contented	kontento
particle	pispis
dirt	dumi
secret	sekreto
whiskey	wiski
ambition	adhikain
administration	administrasyon
chalk	tisa
construction	sayari
write	manulat
write	sumulat
chick	kiti
anatomist	anatomista
astronomy	astronomiya
omission	lukto
dead	tegi
politician	politiko
thick	heko
fluency	tatas
agriculture	agrikultura
nickel	nikel
obstruction	balakid
pig's blood	dugo ng baboy
niche	nitso
coffin	kabaong
grave	libingan
rooster	tandang
orange	kahel
astrology	astrolohiya
bracelet	pulseras
act	taban
sense	utang na loob
Lazarus	Lazaro
good afternoon	magandang hapon
chirp	huni
foot	paa
economist	ekonomista
calibre	kalibre
code	kodigo
pawning	sangla
factory	pabrika
hello	kumusta
lesbian	tibo
floor square tile	baldosa
gene	hene
trigonometry	tatsihaan
stupid	nakakabobo
snub-nosed	pango
act	yurak
magic art	hikmat
falling in love	hulog ng loob
fallen	hulog ang loob
bravado	lakas ng loob
determination	tibay ng loob
climax	sukdulan
madness	topak
criminal	kriminal
nipa	sasa
turkey	pabo
flexible	lambot ng buto
flexible	tigas ng buto
unpleasant	sama ng loob
revolution	rebolusyon
very ripe	lumon
female doctor	doktora
interest	interes
speak	barok
Andrew	Andres
millimetre	milimetro
mechanism	mekanismo
affix	panlapi
room	silid
library	aklatan
book	aklat
candidate	kandidato
dirt	dungis
putang ina	putang ina
opal	opalo
castrated	kapon
precinct	presinto
dust	alikabok
blood relation	kadugo
blood	kamag-anak
vacant	bakante
act	timos
crush	tiris
ground	ligis
house lizard	butiki
standard-bearer	abanderado
tornado	buhawi
chess	ahedres
acacia	akasya
swelling	bukol
slowness	bagal
university	pamantasan
sage	pantas
microorganism	mikroorganismo
lowly	hamak
drill	barena
seismometer	sismometro
bread	tinapay
sugar	asukal
stray dog	askal
addicted	pusakal
street	kalye
game	tangga
gallantry	gilas
Australia	Awstralya
hatchet	puthaw
third	tersera
response	huma
surprised	gulat
chair	upuan
afford	may-kaya
kiss	halik
hug	yakap
outburst	hagikgik
difficult	madugo
beast	halimaw
walk	lakad
we	tayo
possible	maari
fall	bagsak
Sanskrit	Sanskrito
nipa palm	nipa
pierce	tusok
preparation	preparasyon
gold	ginto
hoe	pokpok
money	atik
scabies	galis
Turkey	Turkiya
look down on	matapobre
Hispanism	Hispanismo
debt	utang
spine	tinik
made	husi
pen	kural
snake	ahas
compressor	kompresor
eaten	papak
beverage	mamam
solved	lutas
count	konde
wattle	lambi
Inglesera	Inglesero
newspaper	pahayagan
baby	sanggol
villain	masamang-loob
harelipped	sungi
police	pulis
tonguefish	pahot
metal ring	baat
voluntary	kusa
enter	pasok
over there	hayon
crybaby	balat-sibuyas
onion	sibuyas
everyone	tanan
shameless	kapal ng mukha
face	mukha
observe closely	manman
black hole	itim na butas
felt	inda
single	pagaya
cowardice	hina ng loob
dishearten	sira ang loob
rice plant	palay
milkfish	bangus
nation	nasyon
bitter melon	ampalaya
town	bayan
Jesus	Hesus
foolish	ungag
case	kaha
reason	rason
boycott	boykot
exception	lampas
nausea	adwa
protection	adya
stove	pugon
treble	tiple
saltpetre	salitre
residential tax	sedula
loiterer	istambay
rally	rali
tight hold	pisil
martyr	martir
deflated	impis
clitoris	tinggil
judge	hukom
judge	huwes
axle	ehe
hoarseness	paos
province	Zamboanga
posh	sosi
low bamboo bed	papag
dynasty	halari
toward	palabas
shrub	lantana
something	putat
space	tabi
share	balato
mild fever	sinat
wound	sugat
slightly raised	angat
odor	angi
stupid	ungas
fish cook	pangat
sauteed fish	suam
pliers	sagam
erosion	agnas
game	laro
obstinacy	laris
space	pagitan
tonsil	diris
cleanliness	linis
Spaniard born	insulares
angry	galit
dark	dilim
chatter	satsat
computer	kompyuter
act	pagtae
hopscotch	piko
tall basket	pinton
direct	direkta
small reliquary	agnos
hospital	ospital
disciple	kampon
stingy	kuripot
cheapskate	tyane
Chinese	Tsino
Chink	Tsekwa
plan	balak
adventure	abentura
angel	anghel
choking	bulon
letterbox	buson
archaeologist	arkeologo
silverside fish	guno
golf	golp
young locust	lukton
beard	balbas
chest	kaban
act	pulon
methamphetamine	shabu
large shellfish	kima
amount charge	singil
throw	hagis
pursuit	pagat
dry bed	ilat
coconut curds	latik
basting stitch	tutos
beaker	lumbo
vagina	pekpek
X	ekis
drizzle	ambon
left	kaliwa
sultanate	sultanato
ooze	tagas
confused	pungas
one eye half	pungat
plant	halaman
motel	motmot
fish sauce	patis
faded	kupas
strength	lakas
female flatterer	bolera
broken off	lungas
amethyst	amatista
apostolate	apostolado
jerked	bitad
sluggishness	kupad
barrenness	kutad
wideness	lapad
handled	lutad
freckle	pekas
cover	takip
Atlantic	Atlantiko
architecture	arkitektura
critic	kritiko
communism	komunismo
tobacco	tabako
stubborn	tigas ng ulo
action	akto
strike	hampas
applicant	aplikante
nonexistent	University of Recto
Internet café	kompyuteran
devour	lamon
delay	siban
falling	lugnas
arrest	aresto
abortion	abolisyon
powdery substance	gilik
eleven	onse
stole	estola
always	palagi
hillside	libis
remember	alalahanin
copycat	gaya-gaya
clothes trunk	baul
community	komunidad
hand	kamay
appellation	inso
music	musika
bottlecap	tansan
escape	takas
broom	walis
diamond	diyamante
stretch	inat
large group	sabo
coat	amerikana
cult	kulto
drafting	champektib
rectangular	parihaba
rain gutter	alulod
duchy	dukado
dedicated	dedikado
gambling	sugal
adze	daras
beard	baang
crowded	siki
conversation	anasan
compromise	kompromiso
anachronism	anakronismo
architect	arkitekto
act	yasak
prescription bottle	reseta bote
rival	kaagaw
plant	tanim
destruction	giba
shoe	sapatos
flower	sibo
male homosexual	beki
grandfather	ingkong
tuberculosis	sigam
gravedigger	sepulturero
Muhammad	Mahoma
fired	tsugi
pineapple	pinya
washbasin	lababo
surplus	labis
choose	pumili
here	rine
American	Kano
protagonist	bida
big	ga-
nebula	bigha
pornography	pornograpiya
shape	hugis
differential	tingid
decrease	untos
interior	loob
fat	aligi
adze	pandaras
adorer	adorador
chrism	krisma
mother	inay
sister-in-law	diso
bathing	hambo
table	lamesa
interwoven	salasala
manly	matso
mosque	moske
tollgate	barera
drinking bout	inuman
spinach	espinaka
leadership	liderato
just because	porket
breathing	hinga
goldfish	lali
flotsam	anod
Filipina	Pinay
laceration	sapait
church	simbahan
guide	giya
red owl	giwa
imitation	gaya
grassy	madamo
ouch	aray
place	taguan
calamondin	kalamansi
rambutan	alpay
apricot	aprikot
sugar apple	atis
carambola	balimbing
bitter orange	dalandan
orange	narangha
Philippine variety	dalanghita
date palm	datilero
soursop	guyabano
jackfruit	langka
langsat	lansones
apple	mansanas
banana	saging
mombin	sinigwelas
pomelo	suha
Mexico	tiyesa
yangmei	tsampoy
sapodilla	tsiko
chayote	sayote
jealousy	selos
mangosteen	manggustin
uncool	baduy
sip	sipsip
incitement	urali
mountain range	bulubundukin
sister-in-law	hipag
curve	kurba
slight limp	paika
tassel	borlas
sudden	bigla
tarsier	malmag
advice	payo
moss	lumot
chubbiness	burok
stretched rope	banting
purpose	layon
slowness	dahan
act	pirot
threaten	betis
whine	ungot
dented	kuping
arrogant	arogante
dish	ulam
bogo	abilo
afraid	takot
white	maputi
job	abyad
chemistry	kimika
durian	duryan
smart	silam
diminution	bawa
covered	sanap
word	kataga
arrival	datal
importation	angkat
kind	tula
watery stool	tulas
boss	bosing
ear	tainga
fire	apoy
machine	makina
decree	dekreto
arrogance	eyre
satisfaction	buya
crocodile	buwaya
direct	tahas
ability	abilidad
swing	abyog
race	lahi
instigation	upat
Philippine eagle	haribon
imagination	haraya
peace	kapayapaan
flag	watawat
tea	tsaa
president	pangulo
prime minister	punong ministro
nation	bansa
history	kasaysayan
science	agham
imagination	imahinasyon
teacher	guro
ocean	karagatan
mission	misyon
hyena	yena
clop	tigidig
good morning	magandang umaga
crazy	buang
later	mamaya
there	ayan
steepness	tarik
fame	bunyi
make	bilangan
fight	laban
gray hair	uban
concubinage	apid
lobster	ulang
dream	arap
progress	asenso
high five	apir
closing	pinid
flax	sulid
lipstick	lipstik
wood grain	gisok
Filipino noodle dish	lomi
man	lalaki
discovery	tuklas
Gomburza	Zamora
coyote	koyote
just kidding	charing
black eel	igat
gazette	gaseta
election	halalan
act	akay
hypocrite	hipokrito
shoulder	baksa
mahal kita	mahal kita
erasure	payi
letter	titik
indigo	Maynila
city	lungsod
Aeta people	Agta
highness	laray
mixed weave	samay
entangling obstacle	habid
seated	siping
Turkish	Turko
sesame	linga
pointed	turok
silly	ulok
director	direktor
hollowed	aab
scratch mark	gamos
nightmare terrifying dream	uom
symptom	sintomas
nativity scene	belen
serves you right	belat
already confess	aminado
dot	bito
duende	duwende
cabinet	gabinete
sulk	tampo
bid	tampa
here	heto
galvanized iron	yero
analyst	analisador
grain	butil
blurry	malabo
traditional short-sleeved loose blouse	kimona
spendthrift	gastador
liquid	likido
female spendthrift	gastadora
LABAN	PDP
sale	benta
Mr.	G.
swift	layang-layang
bronze	bronse
reed	tambo
conduct	ugali
white	mamuti
aspect	aspeto
corset	kurse
cracked	laas
lightning	kidlat
thunder	kulog
do not	huwag
earthquake	lindol
suffering	dusa
snow	niyebe
ninety	nobenta
novel	nobela
business	negosyo
memory	memorya
socks	medyas
missionary	misyonaryo
minority	minorya
member	miyembro
portrait	ritrato
rosary	rosaryo
revolutionary	rebolusyonaryo
religion	relihiyon
region	rehiyon
cabbage	repolyo
representation	representasyon
reputation	reputasyon
grape	ubas
spider	gagamba
guitarist	gitarista
government	gobyerno
government	pamahalaan
general	heneral
geography	heograpiya
geographic	heograpiko
generation	henerasyon
Japanese	Hapones
hold-up	holdap
united	nagkakaisa
having	nagkakaroon
there	nagkaroon
pedestrian	naglalakad
intends	nagnanais
shining	nagniningning
conducting	nagsasagawa
farming	nagsasaka
causing	nagsasanhi
sentiment	nagsentimyento
dance	sayaw
maybe	siguro
xylophone	silopono
chair	silya
fifty	sinkuwenta
one hundred	siyento
ice cream	sorbetes
sausage	suriso
scientific	syentipiko
suspension	suspensyon
comb	suklay
glance	sulyap
kite	saranggola
psychologist	sikologo
psychology	sikolohiya
tomato	kamatis
carpet	karpet
administrative	administratibo
actress	aktres
sentiment	sentimyento
declaration	deklarasyon
aquarium	akwaryum
alternative	alternatibo
alphabet	alpabeto
surname	apelyido
jewel	alahas
interval	agwat
slave	alipin
alliance	alyansa
aluminum	aluminyo
starch	almirol
vinegar	binagre
bottle	botelya
Bulgarian	Bulgaro
return	bumalik
tax	buwis
annoying	buwisit
vehicle horn	busina
exasperation	bugnot
sand	buhangin
separate	bukod
pocket	bulsa
modified	binago
electric fan	bentilador
executioner	berdugo
vertebrate	bertebrado
baseball	beysbol
twenty	beynte
knot	buhol
tosh	yagit
yonder	yaon
money	yaman
shock	yanig
name	pangalan
eddy	uliuli
fake	peke
aspect	aspekto
purpose	pakay
co-parent-in-law	baisan
break	baliin
curse	sumpa
beak	tuka
Moscow	Mosku
end	wakas
liter	salop
psychology	dalub-isipan
linguistics	dalubwikaan
sociology	dalub-ulnungan
anthropology	dalubtauhan
astronomy	dalubtalaan
ethnology	dalublahian
anatomy	dalubkatawan
ornithology	dalub-ibunan
zoology	dalubhayupan
botany	dalubhalmanan
professor	dalubguro
political science	dalubbanwahan
horticulture	palahalmanan
semantics	paladiwaan
geology	paladutaan
gymnastics	palakatwanan
symmetry	parianyo
ion	dagipik
electrolyte	dagilusaw
closed	pikit
phycology	dalublumutan
toxicology	dalublasunan
chromosome	kulaylawas
optics	dalubsugaan
urine	ihi
proton	mulasik
bread	pandesal
moonfish	tabas
high tide	taib
lynx	linse
male hog	barako
numerator	panakda
parenthesis	panaklong
resistor	panakwil
osmosis	pananagos
algebra	panandaan
inductor	panawit
accelerator	pandarasig
verb	pandiwa
diffusion	pangangalat
medicine	panggagamot
insulator	panghadlang
lever	panghikwat
amplifier	pangibayo
anesthesia	pangimay
browser	panginain
space shuttle	pangkalawakan
radical	pang-ugat
sentence	pangungusap
capacitor	panlulan
calculator	pantaya
charger	pantablay
civilisation	kabihasnan
gravitation	kadagsinan
gravimetry	dagsinsukatan
gravitate	dumagsin
gravimetric	dagsinsukatin
nucleolus	ibutod
isotope	kahasik
communism	kalamaan
cleanliness	kalinisan
finance	pananalapi
ambassador	lakansugo
implementor	tagapagsagawa
physics	liknayan
integer	buumbilang
biology	haynayan
chemistry	kapnayan
virus	haykap
denominator	pamahagi
equation	tumbasan
nonconductor	disaluyan
chemotaxis	kapbiling
metabolism	kapbisa
catabolism	kapsira
anabolism	kapyari
radioactivity	karagilapan
resistivity	kasagwilan
circuitry	kasalikupan
isomorphism	kasanyuan
cosecant	kasekway
cosine	kasinway
cotangent	katanway
isostasy	katiglan
consonant	katinig
hyperlink	kawingan
accountant	tagatuos
kinetics	kilusan
vibroscope	kinigsipat
vibrograph	kinigsulat
subsonic	kubnugin
chromatin	kulayin
colorimeter	kulaysukat
colorimetry	kulaysukatan
tachometry	inugsukatan
tachometer	inugsukat
thermometer	initsukat
thermometry	initsukatan
thermotaxis	initbiling
hydrotaxis	danumbiling
gravitaxis	dagsinbiling
thermohydraulics	initdanumsigwasan
cytochemistry	silidkapnayan
photometer	sugasukat
photometry	sugasukatan
photoelectricity	sugadagitban
photoelectrode	sugadagindas
photoscope	sugasipat
electroscope	dagitsipat
thermoscope	initsipat
oscillograph	tugoysulat
oscillometer	tugoysukat
magnetometer	balnisukat
spectroscopy	balngawsipatan
magnetospectroscopy	balnibalngawsipatan
magnetochemistry	balnikapnayan
magnetoelectricity	balnidagitab
hydrochemistry	danumkapnayan
accelerometer	darasigsukat
stethoscope	diblinig
geopolymer	dudamikay
polynomial	damikay
biotechnology	hayaghimuan
electrobiology	dagihaynayan
hydrobiology	danumhaynayan
photobiology	sughaynayan
psychobiology	isiphaynayan
sociobiology	ulnuhaynayan
bioacoustics	haytunugan
biochrome	haykulay
thesaurus	talasimpanan
geoelectricity	dudagitab
magnetosphere	balnibulog
hydrosphere	danumbulog
biosphere	haybulog
chemosphere	kapbulog
electrosphere	dagibulog
thermosphere	initbulog
photosphere	sugbulog
chromosphere	kulaybulog
feudalism	pagkamalaalipin
spectrophotometer	balngawsugasukat
spectrophotometry	balngawsugasukatan
spectroscope	balngawsipat
spectrometer	balngawsukat
dictyosome	balaglawas
infinity	awanggan
pyrolysis	apuybilos
lysosome	biluslawas
astrotheology	talabathalaan
histogram	taladalasan
astrobiology	talahaynayan
astrodynamics	talaisigan
astrochemistry	talakapnayan
ethnography	talalahian
astrophysics	talaliknayan
cosmography	talamayawan
demography	talasantauhan
astrometer	talasukat
astrometry	talasukatan
triode	talundas
cube	talurami
cube root	taluugat
television	tanlap
organism	tataghay
notochord	tayudtod
chordate	tayudturan
hydrolysis	tubigbilos
oscilloscope	tugoysipat
oscillometry	tugoysukatan
meson	tungapik
arthropod	ugnaypaa
socioreligious	ulnuagamahin
socio-economic	ulnuagimatin
socio-political	ulnubanwahin
sociocultural	ulnukalnangin
trapezoid	tagigapay
rhomboid	tagihilis
pyramid	tagilo
anode	tahandas
anion	tahapik
positron	tahasik
chronobiology	taknahaynayan
chemosynthesis	kaplamuman
thermoelectricity	initdagitban
thermochemistry	initkapnayan
thermodynamics	initsigan
thermostat	initsupil
monomial	isakay
bacteria	ishay
methane	istan
mitosis	hatimbutod
linotype	hantikan
gyroscope	halintigal
centripetal force	gitisig
infix	gitlapi
midpoint	gituldok
geophysics	dutaliknayan
deuteron	duhasik
triton	talusik
binomial	duhakay
dicotyledon	duhambindahon
diode	duhandas
binoculars	duhansipat
plasma	dinagipik
quasar	digtalain
cation	balipik
cathode	balindas
absurd	baligho
reproduction	balisuplingan
mockery	uroy
mother	nanay
detention	deteni
water	danum
dumb	umid
protractor	paniha
forceps	panipit
parallelogram	parigapay
equilateral	parigilid
friend	kaibigan
meteorite	bulalato
comet	barikod
centrifugal force	basisig
framework	baskagan
theology	bathalaan
diameter	bantod
high point	bantok
false god	bathala
inertia	tigal
statics	tigilan
oscillation	tugoy
shadow	umis
cowlick	puyo
geometry	sukgisan
hyperon	sukdusik
mitochondrion	sulidlawas
level	lebel
cassava	balinghoy
but	kaso
embrace	akap
duck	itik
elephant apple	katmon
Luffa acutangula	patola
long	matagal
volt	bolta
attempt	tangka
bundle	tangkas
natural	likas
move sideward	isod
crime	krimen
blowtorch	suplete
cave	yungib
crouching position	yukyok
crouching	pagyukyok
pollen	mawo
beehive	panilan
joss stick	tanghas
coral	sagay
yellowfin tuna	tambakol
monitor lizard	bayawak
species	basakay
moustache	misay
pulverization	dikdik
good evening	magandang gabi
good noontime	magandang tanghali
glory	luwalhati
petal	talulot
bicep	dagadagaan
breech	suhi
rough	damuho
molar	bagang
animal	hayop
undomesticated	laog
story	istorya
combination	kombinasyon
elephant trunk	bulalay
tailbone	tulatod
chromatid	kakulawas
chromomere	kulayputol
plasma	kaphay
vacuole	lungkag
plastid	kakaphay
cytoplasm	silidkaphay
endoplasm	loobkaphay
ectoplasm	labaskaphay
cytokinesis	silidkilos
cytology	palasihayan
membrane	lamad
big	butod
lamad ng butod	lamad ng butod
lamad ng kaphay	lamad ng kaphay
cell	sihay
lamad ng sihay	lamad ng sihay
cell wall	dingding ng sihay
wall	dingding
cytogenetics	silidmanahan
cytochrome	silidkulay
cytosome	silidlawas
metaplasm	lakdawkaphay
protoplasm	mulkaphay
nucleoplasm	butudkaphay
cytoplast	silidkatwan
granule	binutil
organology	palatatagnan
histology	palasihayanan
tissue	sihayan
metaphase	lakdawyugto
anaphase	patidyugto
karyokinesis	butudkilos
centrosome	gitlawas
spireme	kidsulid
photosynthesis	suglaguman
perfect	napnap
request	pakiwani
knock-kneed	pakid
bobbed hair	buhok na pugok
skeleton	kalansay
boxing	boksing
plant resin	patda
kneecap	bayugo
grasshopper	sambasamba
may uwang sa ulo	may uwang sa ulo
dowry	ubad
cough	ubo
north	hilaga
northward	pahilaga
southward	patimog
aquarium	pabiyay
sash	pamabat
thirst	uhaw
eggplant	talong
clause	sugnay
fishy	malansa
mosquito coil	katol
hydrogen	idroheno
story	kuwento
trouble	daulat
defective	utal
finished	tapos
soap	sabon
river	ilog
blind	pisak
resolution	tika
scold	saway
chromosome	kromosoma
gluttony	siba
moderation	hinay
get	kunan
cocoon	tilas
Cordillera	Igorot
smallness	liit
sheet	kumot
pleasant smell	bango
internode	biyas
powdered mustard	kiluwa
lone	kabuto
kitchen	kusina
girder	kahab-an
gait	huyad
De Guzman	Guzman
steamed rice cake	kutsinta
continent	kontinente
passing through	lulos
rise	hipik
female garbage collector	basurera
cockroach	ipis
coop	tangkal
smelly pus secretion	luga
crevice	awang
singe	saab
your	iyo
board	hunta
clinic	klinik
species	hiyo
winner-take-all	garupa
bring	ikuha
long stake	urang
that	iyan
lap	kandungan
endosmosis	loobpananagos
level	pantay
tooth	ngipin
small singing bird	pirit
crony	kroni
pouring	buhos
knife	kutsilyo
loiterer	tambay
sleepiness	antok
really	talaga
earring	suang
brushing	hiso
conversation	usap
crosspiece	sikang
servant	alila
cigarette	sigi
high tide	taog
head	yuko
wrinkled	yukos
information	impormasyon
dented	yupi
endemic	antipolo
tie	igapos
obvious	bisto
ant	langgam
win	panalo
England	Inglatera
lie	humiga
gift brought	pasalubong
hors d'oeuvre	pulutan
Dr.	Dra.
monied	mapera
laundrywoman	labandera
underdog	dehado
jerk	haltak
silver	pilak
nucleonics	buturan
atomics	mulpikan
electronics	dagisikan
acoustics	tunugan
sound	tunog
optics	sugaan
dynamics	isigan
electrostatics	dagitigilan
mechanism	sigmuan
hydraulics	danumsigwasan
pneumatics	buhagsigwasan
supernatural	higlikas
unnatural	dilikas
physics	sugnayan
physical	sugnayin
physical	sugnayanin
physicist	sugnayanon
physics worker	mansusugnay
hydrostatics	danumtigilan
aerostatics	hangintigilan
aerostatics	buhagtigilan
hydrodynamics	danum-isigan
aerodynamics	hanginsigan
aerodynamics	buhagsigan
electrodynamics	dagitsigan
kinematics	lihukan
science	initan
architecture	agbarugan
architect	agbarog
mansion	himbabahay
magnetism	balnian
electricity	dagitban
geology	dutaan
metaphysics	labawsugnayan
technique	aghimo
technology	aghimuan
technical	aghimuin
technologist	mang-aaghimuan
solid	siksin
mass	bugat
elasticity	pagkaigkasin
elastic	igkasin
inelastic	diigkasin
logic	matwiran
thermometer	initbutod
swarming	buhag
aircraft	salipawpaw
merry-go-round	tiyubibo
microscope	miksipat
loudspeaker	daktinig
telephone	hatinig
metaphysics	higliknayan
judo	hudo
ecology	palamuhayan
bounty	pabuya
education	katuruan
heredity	kamanahan
religion	agamahan
synthetic	lagumlalangin
humanitarianism	palamakatauhan
humanitarian	mapagkawanggawa
superman	higtao
great man	daktao
decade	pultaon
millennium	libuntaon
colony	sakupbayan
territory	lupain
imperialism	pagkamakagahum
neocolonialism	pagkamakabagunsakupin
neocolonial	bagunsakupin
tradition	kamihasnan
funnel	balisungsong
magnifying glass	pandakong paningob
Syzygium cumini	lumboy
affidavit	alusitha
economics	agimatan
fart	utot
linguistics	aghamwika
mullet	sumalapaw
derrick	bintag
nadir	idalum
ordinary least squares	karaniwang kababaang parirami
container	lalagyan
pork sausage	longganisa
letter	liham
secret	lihim
secretary	kalihim
fever	lagnat
prostrate	lagmak
courteous	magalang
rowboat	galauran
signature	lagda
hanging	lagaylay
stickiness	lagkit
glutinous rice	malagkit
differential calculus	tingiring tayahan
paradox	kabalintunaan
kitchen utensil	lalanghutan
open	tablaw
autumn	taglagas
fifteen	kinse
onion	lasuna
vampire	bampira
Mary	Santa Maria
disemboweled	wakwak
dear	kerida
termite	anay
act	kabit
date	petsa
species	malanasi
flame	laab
rocket	kuwitis
mattress	kutson
ingredient	sangkap
center	gitna
kitten	kuting
dirty	baboy-baboy
Arab	Arabo
milk	letse
shrimp	hipon
airplane	eroplano
direction	dako
turned on	nalilibog
protuberant	matambok
snakebite	tuklaw
sweet potato	kamote
wood	kahoy
scratch	kamot
libido	utog
stockpot	kaldero
weight placed	dagan
pubic hair	bulbol
alum	tawas
lemongrass	nugo
trickle	kayat
mosquito	lamok
unripe	hilaw
hollow noise	abog
quick	sagoy
ribbit	kokak
application	lagay
meeting	pulong
rent	upahan
forest	gubat
rubber band	lastiko
burnt	sunog
store	tindahan
farm	kabukiran
Malay	Bahasa
callus	lipak
length	bungbong
gin	hinebra
metal rim	yantas
uncle	tiyo
aunt	tiya
engineering	agsikapan
engineer	agsikap
circular	balukay
wedge	singkal
involved by chance	dalawit
axle	gargaran
alloy	balahak
metallurgy	balahakan
fossil	hayto
horn	sungay
knee	tuhod
great-grandchild	apo sa tuhod
roast	ihaw
top	tuktok
key	yawe
juncture	ugma
Russian	Ruso
Lord	Gat
carried	tumpang
masturbate	jakol
sperm	semilya
ripe	hinog
pimp	bugaw
complete	tugnaw
itch mite	kagaw
sleep	tulog
rice porridge	lugaw
Corvus	uwak
tear	luha
hag	bruha
dead	patay
very hairy	balbon
higher mathematics	higsipnayan
theory of equations	palatumbasan
pair	kapid
maniac	manyak
maniac	manyakis
male homosexual	bayot
clan	angkan
midwife clinic	paanakan
light bump	sunggo
cat	mingming
young girl	inday
father	tatay
noisy scolding	sibog
young crab	sikatsikat
zeal	sikhay
diligent	masikhay
mountain pass	silang
breeze	simoy
twisted	pilok
eyebrow	kilay
enchantment	engkanto
chap	lubot
stamp	padyak
tweak	labnot
cowrie shell	sigay
charcoal	uling
snore	hagok
rotten	bugok
rancid	maanta
cemetery	sementeryo
mausoleum	musoleyo
rising	alsa
motorcycle	motorsiklo
palm	palad
fake	huwad
modus operandi	salisi
parent	magulang
recurrence	singga
man	tirong
roasting	litson
current	kuryente
male stripper	macho dancer
squawk	piyak
cry	iyak
general term	yapyap
shapeshifting evil creature	aswang
untied	kalag
pacifier	tsupon
taro cake	ukoy
box	kahon
flattened	pisot
point	tungki
despicable	punyeta
loincloth	bahag
ferocious	mabangis
dwarf	unano
ensaimada	ensaymada
splash	pisik
floodwater	tubig baha
widower	biyudo
widow	biyuda
rabbit	kuneho
cool	astig
Impatiens balsamina	kamantigi
frangipani	kalatsutsi
squash	kalabasa
haft	ikog
trap	umang
sweet pea	gisantes
siren	wangwang
washing	hugas
tree	huwas
octopus	pugita
Happy New Year	manigong bagong taon
lamb	kordero
burnt out	pundi
whale	balyena
accounting office	patuusan
dinner party	salu-salo
waist	baywang
masterpiece	obra maestra
tuberous root	tugi
relapse	binat
effective	talab
accomplice	samaya
go Dutch	KKB
speak	magsalita
flirtatious	kikay
toiletries	kikay kit
chicken blood	betamax
tripod	tungko
inner membrane	bamban
cormorant	kasili
soup	sabaw
five	bagol
dull	mapurol
summary	buod
electrochemistry	dagikapnayan
electrode	dagindas
fraction	hatimbilang
conductor	saluyan
subset	kubtangkas
molecule	mulatil
drunkard	palainom
cooking oil	mantika
fan	paypay
wash	labhan
egg	puga
subject	paksa
snatcher	isnatser
shaping	hulma
capital	puhunan
female storekeeper	tindera
storekeeper	tindero
caprice	kapritso
copper	tanso
cable	kable
punishing	pamamalo
slipper	tsinelas
swarm	kuyaw
pain	ngilo
issue	isyu
hacienda	asyenda
tank	tangke
instance	lihi
act	luhod
mistake	biso
delousing	hinguto
bamboo	kawayan
bamboo grove	kawayanan
monk	monghe
tango	tanggo
broken	balbal
girlfriend	nobya
arrowroot	araru
freight rate	plete
candle	kandila
common	ordinaryo
passenger	pasahero
ride	sakay
stop	sakayan
descend	naog
stilt	kikik
hammer	martilyo
celery	apyo
bandurria	bandurya
voter	botante
delirium	deliryo
decided	desidido
duchess	dukesa
defense	depensa
invalid	lumpo
act	uwi
washcloth	labakara
massage	masahe
massage	hilot
prepare	humanda
act	imbita
brake	preno
prestigious	prestihiyoso
almond	kalumpang
malicious	malisyoso
alien	dayo
balcony	balkonahe
boxer	boksingero
anchor	angkla
advantage	bentaha
stutter	ang-ang
preoccupied	abalang-abala
abdication	abdikasyon
ostrich	abestrus
advertisement	patalastas
dust	abok
abortion	aborsiyon
occupy oneself	libang
domain	kaharian
boundary stone	mohon
ranch	bakahan
dagger	sundang
grated	kudkod
chapel	kapilya
belfry	kampanaryo
church bell	kampana
curtain	kortina
delight	lugod
argumentative	pilosopo
snatch	sunggab
vainglorious	burot
thrust	duldol
dandruff	dalikdik
peppercorn	paminta
escabeche	eskabetse
pitcher	pitsel
fried	prito
sautéed	gisado
uneven spot	bako
defendant	akusado
dough	tapay
bet collector	kristo
cockfight	sabong
mockery	libak
gossip	tsismis
male gossip	tsismoso
hut	dampa
breast	suso
pairing	tambalan
exclamation	susmaryosep
vacationer	bakasyonista
vacation	bakasyon
instigation	sulsol
body odor	anghit
saucepan	kaserola
briefs	brip
wing	pakpak
effeminate man	bading
swaddling clothes	lampin
act	tadtad
one	dadaanin
ford	dabaw
stamp	dabog
aviator	abyador
match	posporo
ammonia	amonya
main topsail	gabya
best man	abay na lalaki
abuse	abusuhin
diphtheria	dipterya
aviation	abyasyon
customs	adwana
agenda	adyenda
additional	adisyunal
rustling sound	agaas
side-by-side	agapay
promptness	agap
grating sound	agatat
sarna	agihap
gorilla	gorilya
wheeze	agahas
dirty	agiw
deep	agong
aggressive	agresibo
large needle	aguha
hairpin	aguhilya
very large needle	aguhon
turpentine	agwaras
instead of	imbes
cadet	kadete
scabby lesion	kurikong
manicurist	manikurista
television	telebisyon
empress	emperatris
bed	katre
washbowl	palanggana
second lieutenant	alperes
evacuation	ebakwasyon
gospel	ebanghelyo
evaporated milk	ebaporada
executive	ehekutibo
remove food	ahunin
tidal wave	agwahe
academy	akademya
uncertain	alanganin
chain	kadena
crayon	krayola
original	orig
dangerous	delikado
requirement	rekisito
Switzerland	Suwisa
sponge bath	banyos
humanoid creature	tikbalang
naphthalene	naptalina
eve	bisperas
exact	eksakto
university	unibersidad
MSG	bitsin
rice vermicelli	bihon
thin	miswa
hopia	hopya
wholesale buying	pakyaw
lament	taghoy
Chinese cabbage	petsay
electricity	dagitab
wooden sandal	bakya
drama	teleserye
drip	tagaktak
sprinkling	budbod
forced	pilit
pity	habag
change	sukli
victim	biktima
cover	sakob
highway robber	tulisan
criminal	kawatan
exact	sayap
hold-upper	holdaper
bamboo plank	taytay
bridge	tulay
coconut	niyog
cloud	ulap
tragic	kalunos-lunos
traffic jam	trapik
fish corral	baklad
activity	aktibidad
riding together	angkas
franc	prangko
soldier	sundalo
warp	pintal
cut	patid
cinema	sinehan
dragnet	pukot
blandness	tabang
minium	minyo
diffused	lirot
savings	ipon
saucer	platito
ladle	kutsaron
widen	luwag
extent	lawak
holding	hawak
lameness	tikod
rattle	pakalog
destabilization	destabilisasyon
complete	kompleto
list	listahan
giant clam	taklobo
ang pagsasabi ng tapat ay pagsasama ng maluwat	maluwat
radish	labanos
plant species	mustasa
opo squash	upo
loud	kabog
edible tuberous root	singkamas
lemongrass	tanglad
full	malisa
focus	tutok
thread	tungod
anguish	dawis
district	purok
watercraft Austronesian	balangay
barrio	baryo
gas lamp	gasera
crutch	andaderas
blond	rubyo
jeweller	alahero
arm	akbay
wire netting	alambrera
outer void	alangaang
duration	luwat
time	panahon
conceited	suplado
cook	kusinero
cook	kusinera
long time	kalaunan
teaspoon	kutsarita
axe	palakol
harlot	kiyo
necklace	binaysok
awning sheet	bilubilo
dimple	biloy
route	yagban
valve	balbula
military veteran	beterano
nurse	nars
daughter	senyorita
son	senyorito
accountant	akawntant
notebook	kuwaderno
flying ember	alipato
paleness	putla
beautiful	guwapa
half-blooded	mestiso
half-blooded	mestisa
very young girl	dalaginding
young Chinese man	tsinito
young Chinese woman	tsinita
industry	industriya
first stroke	talaw
cut off	putol
lieutenant	tenyente
sentinel	tanod
light bulb	bombilya
outrigger	katig
person	kaedad
enemy	kaaway
slender	balingkinitan
somersault	balintong
turn	bumalintong
curled	balisuso
standing on end	baliskad
strangury	balisawsaw
nosebleed	balinguyngoy
blown inside-out	balinghat
idleness	kabatuganan
spy	batyaw
pork sausage	batutay
loose morals	kirimpot
ceiling	kisame
infant	kipangkipang
half	binting
dragonfly	tutubi
shadow	kulalaying
Annona reticulata	anonas
immediate	agaran
finger	daliri
building	gusali
midnight	hatinggabi
dried nasal mucus	kulangot
buttock	puwit
nipple	utong
abdomen	tiyan
tweezers	tiyani
soy sauce	toyo
earring	hikaw
food	pagkain
floor	sahig
conjunction	pangatnig
pronoun	panghalip
adverb	pang-abay
cheek	pisngi
chest	dibdib
body	katawan
butterfly	paruparo
oil	langis
home	tahanan
acacia	langil
dandruff	balakubak
stomach	sikmura
shortsightedness	pagkasilag
peach	melokoton
child-in-law	manugang
talent	talihilig
shark	pating
duty	tungkulin
amulet	dupil
thread	sinulid
needle	karayom
noun	pangngalan
dot	tuldok
appearance	itsura
gambler	sugarol
place	sugalan
mahjong	madyong
swordmaker	panday
isolation	wakaak
isolation	pagkawakaak
shaking	witwit
mascot	wisit
eggcup	webera
filament	walidwid
signal	walawad
uncovered	wadwad
neatness	wakya
scatter	walwal
varicolored woven cloth	walna
mammal	wilik
dimmed	wating-wating
eighty	walumpu
eight hundred	walundaan
dilapidated	waray
squander	waldas
triumph	wagi
Purgatory	purgatoryo
dejected	sungo
threatening gesture	yaang
waling-waling	walingwaling
change	palit
torn	windang
awry	wiliwid
impoverishment	yangot
betel nut	hitso
betel pepper	ikmo
whiz	wiswis
whiz	wagiswis
archipelago	kapuluan
ruin	wasak
eight thousand	walunlibo
seventy	pitumpu
sixty	animnapu
fifty	limampu
forty	apatnapu
thirty	tatlumpu
twenty	dalawampu
ninety	siyamnapu
nine hundred	siyamnaraan
five hundred	limandaan
four hundred	apatnaraan
fifty thousand	limanlaksa
fifteen	labinlima
shade	lilom
shady	malilom
sculptor	manlililok
five time	makalima
slovenly	limahi
frequent	malimit
thrice	makaitlo
society	lipunan
seventeen	labimpito
seven hundred	pitundaan
eleven	labing-isa
twelve	labindalawa
thirteen	labintatlo
fourteen	labing-apat
sixteen	labing-anim
eighteen	labingwalo
million	angaw
slight vision	tataw
three hundred	tatlundaan
three-fourths	tatlong-kapat
human relation	pakikitungong-tao
reconstruction	mulinyari
recreation	mulinsigla
rust	kalawang
throat	lalamunan
road	lansangan
brown	kayumanggi
clean	kikig
punch	suntok
wreck	pagwawasak
maybe	yata
small	yatab
rattan	yantok
set	yangasngas
rubbish	yamutmot
partial corrosion	yatyat
whatth	pang-ilan
France	Pransya
small creek	alod
thickened	gipalpal
ridicule	uyaw
dungeon	bartolina
monument	bantayog
germ	binhay
vegetable	gulay
watermelon	pakwan
literature	panitikan
liana	baging
color	kulay
fast	mabilis
slow	mabagal
wide	malapad
our	natin
our	atin
noisy	maingay
cowardly	duwag
rim	lipit
dense	malapot
lascivious	malanya
betel nut palm	luyos
commonly	marani
sick	umay
wag	puyupoy
solar plexus	gawis
kindness	kagandahang-loob
leave	lumabas
bring out	maglabas
killed	mapatay
die	mamatay
subject	panaguri
simple	payak
Adam's apple	lalagukan
leap year	bisyesto
fog	ulop
rocking chair	tumba-tumba
lullaby	oyayi
eyebags	lowat
tsking	talak
there	diyan
Corchorus olitorius	saluyot
good	mabuti
patience	pasensya
sorry	pasensya na
joy	galak
acquainted	makilala
that	iyon
office	opisina
artichoke	alkatsopas
art	palatugtugan
musical score	talaawitan
musical score	talatugtugan
barramundi	apahap
sandalwood	apalit
major	medyor
colonel	koronel
commander	komander
sergeant	sarhento
dessert	himagas
act	himanting
slow	mahiman
gazelle	gasela
trowel	dulos
peak	dunggot
window	durungawan
acrid	kulasim
suckling pig	kulig
rustle	kulos
stye	kuliti
small net	kurag
myopia	kurarap
human rights	karapatang pantao
right	karapatan
large	ipo
old bachelor	bulandal
careful search	bulatlat
painful	masakit
Mrs.	Gng.
Ms.	Bb.
Miss	Binibini
pugnacious	palaaway
thief	magnanakaw
stump	sakwa
whereabouts	nasaan
toy boat	lanunab
hip	bugnit
fish hook	kawit
camel	kamelyo
second plowing	sugok
pool	salog
species	kulaw
act	pusad
pustule	burog
how	paano
idle talk	gakgak
noisy	hakhak
seasickness	ilay
completely toothless	bungaw
rope	lubid
act	liwat
spit	luwa
wrist	galanggalangan
light	sigit
instant	iglap
flying fish	iliw
grandmother	impo
stepmother	inang-panguman
tender	labong
muse	lakambini
great blaze	lagabgab
readily available	lagap
noise	laginit
just delivered	lagsang
passage	lagusan
smear	lahid
drip	lahoy
shroud	lalab
valley	lambak
doubled	lambal
hanging cluster	lambayog
viscous	lamira
wattle	lampik
slippery	malandas
slippery	madulas
prurient	landit
display	lamuga
banana plantation	sagingan
guava plantation	bayabasan
Chinese celery	kintsay
half-witted	langkas
solder	hinang
grace	biyaya
sapphire	sapiro
baldness	upaw
disobedient	suwail
sentinel	taliba
rotting	lupog
pomelo	lukban
hornbill	kalaw
bald	kalbo
variety	kulat
United States	Kana
whisper	bulong
granary	taklab
intestinal worm	ulay
volcano	bulkan
chopping board	sangkalan
fowl	ulikba
orphaned	ulila
pigsty	ulbo
eagle	banoy
shoulder	balikat
bamboo outrigger	pakaway
all	lahat
some	iilan
mustard plaster	sinapismo
act	katay
Samson	Sanson
hero	bayani
large bag	bayong
female Belgian	Belhika
request	pakiusap
money	pakimkim
foot	sulikap
light	sumbo
punch	sumbi
species	duhol
oppressed	dusta
lopped	sangal
powerful	makapangyarihan
costly	magugol
healed	hilom
egg yolk	apyak
tree	abuab
plea	tagiamo
provide	bahagan
rank	ranggo
thinness	nipis
lily	liryo
Mexican marigold	amarilyo
denim cloth	maong
sound	sasak
embarrassed	sawil
hut	sawong
candlenut tree	lumbang
request	hingan
Moses	Moises
Arabian jasmine	sampagita
ylang ylang	alangilan
sea turtle	pawikan
five	singko
weight	timbang
brazenly greedy	buwakaw
gold brooch	kansing
rickety	kantog
neighbor	kapitbahay
neighboring country	kapitbansa
act	kapol
temporary shed	karang
leather bag	karay
resentment	hinanakit
leap	himbak
tough tissue	gatid
frisky	magaslaw
chance	tsansa
cigarette	sigarilyo
seesaw	tiwasan
sure	tiyak
merry-go-round	tiyobibo
doggerel	tulakis
confused	tuliro
infection	tulok
persecution	siphaw
disappointment	siphayo
passionate kiss	sisil
chick	sisiw
sudden flight	tiplas
male quail	tiktiko
abrasion	tikal
young quail	kutipaw
sickle	lilik
cause	sanhi
weapon	sandata
sliver	salubsob
animal tusk	salimao
slowness	sagal
covetous	sakim
thick dirt	libag
extreme weakness	lugo
lullaby	lulay
pupil	inla
cry	uha
peninsula	tangway
edge	tangwa
wide	tangkulok
irritable	talusaling
landing	talurang
sheathing	talupak
empty	taltal
small bar	talasok
mildew	tagulamin
small wave	tagbik
anchor	sawo
strong smelly odor	sangyod
rivulet	saog
act	saoy
bending	luyok
attack	lusob
open blister	lintos
scythe	lingkaw
secret	lingid
state	lisok
fissure	litak
night vigil	lamay
fatty substance	lanab
pancreas	lapay
excessive softness	laroy
growl	ingil
saw	lagari
toddle	ampang
nostril	butas-ilong
Chinese owner	kabisi
cacao tree	kakaw
narrow	kalalang
dropsy	kalamayo
careful consideration	kalapa
playmate	kalaro
poison	lason
welt	latay
long tail feather	lawi
edge	laylayan
state	laylay
burial	libing
libido	libog
blister	libtos
short firebrand	agipo
furtive	alimis
only	lamang
kneaded	lapisa
affliction	tihil
flyspeck	tilis
lowland	timak
slight burn	tilay
swarm	kuyog
giant	tandayag
stench	bansiw
shameless person	matigas ang sikmura
person	matigas pa sa kulig
lazy	matigas ang buto
lazy	matigas ang katawan
old bachelor	matandang tinali
someone	ahas-bahay
authorities	bisig ng batas
clavicle	balagat
toothless	bungal
skipjack tuna	gulyasan
sweetlips	gulyabaw
thin	lusay
middle finger	hinlalato
shanty	palirong
plowshare	palinta
anvil	palihan
buoy	palutang
temple	pilipisan
occiput	pilipot
sidelong glance	liing
careful study	linay
child	laman ng laman
vagabond	laman ng lansangan
rivals	langis at tubig
couple	langaw at gatas
girl	lantang bulaklak
destitute	makitid ang kumot
industrious	makapal ang palad
something	pampatabang-puso
insane	sira ang bait
little finger	kalingkingan
thumb	hinlalaki
bumblebee	bubuyog
salty	maalat
windy	mahangin
hot	mainit
long	mahaba
colorful	makulay
patriotic	magiting
amiable	magiliw
dawdling	magigi
prankish	magaso
disorder	magulo
entangled	magusot
like coconut milk	malagata
milky	malagatas
sailfish	malasugi
full	malaway
smoke	usok
talent	hiram na ulo
good luck	hulog ng langit
grave	huling hantungan
foreign land	ibayong dagat
unfortunate person	ibong sawi
bachelor	ibong malaya
bad woman	ibong mababa ang lipad
press	ikaapat na kapangyarihan
extreme happiness	ikapitong langit
young lady	labi ng aso
asal	asal-Hudas
small children	anghel ng tahanan
new pair	bagong bakal
newcomer	bagong-ahon
shameless	balat-kalabaw
heavy	balot sa puti
useless person	bato sa lansangan
misfortune	biro ng tadhana
charitable	bukas ang palad
superficial expression	bulaklak ng dila
socialite	bulaklak ng lipunan
courageous	buhay ang loob
life	buhay-alamang
child	bunga ng pag-ibig
skinny	buto't balat
thief	kaaway ng liwanag
gossiper	mapagsagap ng alimuom
shameless	matigas ang mukha
proud	may hangin sa ulo
still young	may gatas pa sa labi
jobless	nagbibilang ng poste
back	likod
fierce	may tahid
restless person	may uod sa katawan
married	may pananagutan sa buhay
cuckoo	may kato sa ulo
phrase	parirala
knock	katok
hot-headed	may apoy sa tuktok
having little money	maikli ang pisi
always late	maikli ang paa
weak-minded	abo ang laman ng ulo
treacherous person	ahas sa damo
someone	ahas na tulog
already old	alog na ang baba
sudden departure	alsa-balutan
brave will	bakal na kalooban
prison	bahay na bato
stone	batong-buhay
life	buhay-manok
success	bundok na buhangin
penniless	butas ang bulsa
heaven	kabilang daigdig
friend	kabatakang-kumot
spouse	kabiyak ng dibdib
friend	kahiramang-suklay
friend	kadaupang-palad
one	kakaning-itik
fire	kalabasang pula
feeling	kalam ng tiyan
intimate friend	kapalagayang-loob
spouse	kapilas ng puso
spouse	karugtong ng buhay
fluency	dilang ginto
intelligent	dilat ang mata
bad luck	dagok ng kapalaran
blue blood	dugong mahal
beautiful voice	ginintuang tinig
kind-heartedness	ginintuang puso
father	haligi ng tahanan
well-dressed	hindi kakapitan ng alikabok
friendly	magaan ang bibig
couple	magkataling puso
unconscious	patay-dampot
lazy person	patabaing baboy
married	pinagbuhol ang dibdib
one's own home	sariling pugad
inflammable	takaw-apoy
always sleepy	takaw-tulog
very bad character	ugaling hayop
embrace	yakap-Hudas
complete happiness	langit ng buhay
selfish	lawit ang pusod
earth	langit at lupa
something	lumang tugtugin
someone	maamong kalapati
mababa	mababang-loob
happy	mabulaklak na kahapon
shameless	makapal ang mukha
deaf	malapad ang kaingin
person	pamasak-butas
very costly	halagang ginto
congenial companion	kabagang
compatible	magkabagang
very soft voice	boses-ipis
croaky voice	boses-palaka
truthful statement	birong-totoo
lazy	bato ang katawan
having	basa ang papel
having	baon sa utang
inattentive guard	bantay-tumana
dishonest guard	bantay-salakay
false news	balitang kutsero
large squid	kurita
vulture	buwitre
gout	piyo
violin	biyolin
viola	biyola
triangle	batingting
journey	biyahe
direct	deretso
boastful	mahangin ang ulo
hungry	mahapdi ang bituka
smarting	mahapdi
stingy	mahigpit ang hawak sa bulsa
with little influence	mahina ang kapit
with low intelligence	mahina ang ulo
easily spent	mainit sa kamay
boastfulness	isang dakot na hangin
relief	hamog sa tag-araw
punishment	hampas ng langit
help	hapin ng buhay
very dirty	hinahabol na ng sabon
chief	hepe
wily	burukinto
candle	sasang
candlestick holder	sasangan
concubinage	agulo
kleptomania	kulawin
coarse	balindang
wide	balanga
bassoon	bahon
adjective	pang-uri
tortoise	pagong
young growth	pulad
castration	puhag
mons pubis	puklo
sawdust	piyaos
species	pisig
pinch	piral
having	pingod
yoke	paod
small village	nayon
hard	mabigat panimbangan
hard	mabigat ang salapi
always	mabigat ang paa
easily shed	mababa ang luha
grave	lupang payapa
gum	gilagid
support	gilagiran
Italy	Italya
Indonesia	Indonesya
long	atungal
grammar	balarila
insect	kulisap
phlegm	plema
earwax	tutuli
Norway	Norwega
sip	higop
Taiwan	Taywan
Syria	Sirya
Romania	Rumanya
Lithuania	Litwanya
Congo	Konggo
Finland	Pinlandiya
Cambodia	Kambodya
India	Indiya
sandwich spread	palaman
exhaust pipe	tambutso
fair	perya
basketball player	basketbolista
irony	pasol
economy	ekonomiya
condensed milk	kondensada
godfather	ninong
godmother	ninang
cape	lungos
urinary bladder	pantog
disease	kayawa
lopsided	kayog
compressed tight	kiit
fib	kulimba
impudent	dansay
watch	pulaw
stupid	galgal
chicken louse	hanip
dew	hamog
large burial jar	gusi
eyeshade	gusilaw
light	gupiling
oval	habilog
firstborn child	panganay
danger	panganib
jealousy	panibugho
cockscomb	palong
halo	palaba
big beam	anaman
footfall	yabag
consumption	konsumo
decision	desisyon
boyfriend	nobyo
glare	pulag
tiny	malinggit
jolly fellow	salakata
stubborn	salahilo
pouch	lukbot
design	sulam
dart	suligi
blowgun	sumpak
trail	bagtas
badge	tsapa
reader	magbabasa
stop crying	tahan
investigation	imbestigasyon
action	aksiyon
court	husgado
climb	adyo
puppy	kuwa
club	bambo
act	uyog
client	kliyente
calamity	kalamidad
tragedy	trahedya
heaping handful	akom
thick peel	akba
small	kariton
bail	piyansa
bribe	suhol
motive	motibo
intent	sadya
public prosecutor	piskal
signed	pirmado
Cyprus	Tsipre
multicolored	tulik
army	hukbo
ashtray	titisan
edge	bingit
sunset	sibsib
scene	eksena
water spinach	kangkong
microphone	mikropono
ambition	ambisyon
ambitious	ambisyoso
twilight	takipsilim
slight wound	taklip
thin covering	takob
affected	apektado
Sweden	Suwesya
Hungary	Unggriya
smoothing iron	plantsa
ironed out	plantsado
patient	pasyente
village person	tagabukid
freeman	maharlika
rotten	bulok
highest point	hampol
salary	suweldo
port	lalawigan
Diospyros blancoi	kamagong
frank	prangka
vocation	bokasyon
physical weakness	kamping
swordfish	dugso
offering	alay
ripen	lunak
carried dangling	bitbit
spread out	lanay
melt	tunaw
ring finger	palasingsingan
cypress	sipres
splinter	subyang
bundle	sukong
spindle	sudian
briber	manunuhol
surfeit	sunok
rap	sungkol
recruit	sungko
伸齒	sungki
offshoot	supling
burnt	supok
amendment	susog
pressed	susop
fed up	susot
sugarcane cutting	taad
water	tabad
ferry	tabaw
tabernacle	tabernakulo
sheet	tabayag
native clothespress	takba
husk cover	takupis
covering	takuko
rib	tadyang
elongated	tagihaba
obsequious person	tagisuyo
irrigation canal	taguling
serious	talangas
lascivious woman	talandi
Jupiter	Hupiter
rent	sipak
frightened cry	siyok
rice wine	siyoktong
Chinese steamed bun	siyopaw
prudence	siyasip
prudent	masiyasip
survey	siyasig
very careful research	siyasik
investigation	siyasat
fig	sisiyo
tightwad	singgi
crooked	singkol
large china jar	sinamong
overflow	sinap
contrary current	sindal
hiccup	sinok
hiccup	sigok
short-necked	sigik
fortune	nigo
lucky	manigo
threadbare	nisnis
radiation	ninag
fringe	palawingwing
small axe	palathaw
arrow	palaso
small banner	palawis
fin	palikpik
beriberi	pamamanas
hand-to-hand combat	pamuok
summit	pantok
apostrophe	tudlik
diacritic	tuldik
severe diarrhea	tulasok
somewhat stupid	timang
cud	timayok
disagreeable odor	angot
handbarrow	arag-arag
dollar	dolyar
virility	bulog
boar	bulugan
cart	kangga
beam	silahis
basis	basehan
councilor	konsehal
spear	tugda
stake	tugday
ballast	tulakbahala
lance	tulag
stupid	tulala
stupidity	katulalaan
unique	tulali
multicolored rooster	tulikan
deafened	tulig
semicolon	tuldok-kuwit
colon	tutuldok
continuation	tuloy
uranium	uranyo
plants	pag-upas
bump	untog
prefix	unlapi
tiny	unsik
molting	ulag
rainy season	tag-ulan
stem	uhay
always snivel	uhog
caterpillar	uod
slow	ugaw
foolish	ugak
big bite	ukab
spool	ulak
spool	ulakan
suddenness	kabiglaan
exact	masayap
exactness	kasayapan
split bamboo	sasag
reminiscence	salamisim
held suspended	salalak
neckerchief	salampay
ally	sagpi
fishhook	sagat
train	sagayad
extra passenger	sakil
particle	mismis
feather duster	pamispis
earless	pingol
lime	pirali
very light throb	pinting
jerked beef	pindang
eyelash	pilik
banquet	piging
thinness	kapayatan
quick reply	patnig
flat	paril
tip	paragala
weak conclusion	taghap
cook	tagapagluto
having	maamos
coil	arwa
rathole	uot
flame	ulob
end	udyong
landlord	kasero
tap	tampi
deserving	tampat
lance	tandos
pulley	tangkalag
having	tapil
swagger	kiay
small fishing net	sakag
acme	rurok
subdue	saho
act	salag
resentment	salaghati
small fishing net	salap
gas	tabol
loud	takap
littleness	kauntian
low	pag-unga
insipid	mayapa
tastelessness	kayapahan
flowerpot	yanga
long stride	yangkaw
scraping	yamuam
little	tinip
intestinal worm	tiwa
topaz	topasyo
sharp	matalas
instrument	talarok
exchange	uyan
leaving	uad
short	itak
carry away	tangay
dean	dekano
thing	salawa
act	hintay
cessation	tugot
prostitute	patutot
sweaty	pawis
covetousness	yamo
covetous	mayamo
covetousness	kayamuan
stubble	yamot
bagasse	yamas
threatening gesture	yamba
emaciated	yagang
extreme thinness	kayagangan
sponginess	yabo
kind	paraw
ostentation	parayaw
bend	yukdo
overloaded	yutyot
intermittent shaking	pagyutyot
emaciated	yayat
trembling	pagyanig
annoyance	pagkayamot
given	yakyak
mind	isip
whale shark	isdantuko
light touch	isil
prominent	iswad
nit	kupi
act	ugoy
keen	sabik
soaked	tamak
cough	umubo
act	pag-ubo
act	pag-uubo
persistent ask	ukilkil
insistent	maukilkil
Maundy Thursday	Huwebes Santo
Holy Saturday	Sabado de Gloria
roof	bubong
snare	bitag
special long	sisip
point	sambat
nipa awning	samil
slap	sampal
crossroad	sangandaan
comedian	komedyante
comedy	komedya
reply	sagot
Indian coral tree	dapdap
false	sinungaling
sudden jerk	sintog
cutlery	kubyertos
Balthazar	Baltazar
why	bakin
now	ngayon
Melchior	Melchor
Barnabas	Bernabe
toughness	gayot
tough	magayot
toughness	kagayutan
oscillating movement	gibay
pyrite	giginto
crack	gitang
sudden	yaros
harmful	mapaminsala
harmful	nakakasira
harmful	nakakapinsala
attend	lingil
littleness	linggit
littleness	kalinggitan
mental perturbation	linggatong
din	linggal
boa constrictor	manlilingkis
bewildered	lingaw
erroneous	linsil
small	linib
recovery	lindayag
greasy	linab
mackerel fry	linatsay
very large jar	limpik
very big piece	limpal
light	liwanag
rut	lubyak
melancholic	lukulok
hollow	luganggang
tinder	lulog
shin	lulod
canoe	lunday
violence	kagahasaan
pressed tight	iting
wedge	iwak
spread	lanip
female deer	libay
gliding	limbay
Hokkien	Teng
intoxicated	bangag
carrot	asanorya
sudden gust	asbok
asexual	asog
gentle persuasion	atig
gentle persuasion	pag-atig
act	atupag
tailless bird	tukong
prop	tudlang
fast	matulin
Spanish mackerel	tangginggi
accusation	sumbong
calendar	kalendaryo
Bartholomew	Bartolome
domestic helper	katulong
order	utusan
womanhood	kababaihan
take	babaihin
court	mambabae
foul	mabaho
maternal hug	umaum
beautiful	pagandahin
sleep	patulugin
say	sabihin
tell	sabihan
reproach	pagsabihan
again	ulit
repeat	umulit
stick	mandila
spark	diklap
sparkling	padiklap-diklap
break	bumali
fried rice	tapsilog
fried rice	sinangag
become old	gumulang
small brass cannon	lantaka
stare	titig
province	Maguindanao
servant	lingkod
frequent	madalas
crème caramel	leche flan
shake	mag-alog
shake	alugin
shake	umalog
heap	tabon
angry conflict	basangal
castrated	basig
fishing rod	baway
testicle	bayag
scar	bikat
foreign matter stuck	bikig
tongs	bigting
type	binalalak
face towel	bimpo
stupid	binsa
pursuit	tugis
Saint Louis	San Luis
speedster	kaskasero
carpenter	kikil
mosquito larva	kikinsot
leprosy	ketong
lump	kimpal
oval	tighaba
measles	tigdas
word puzzle	tigbuhol
melted	tignas
sound produce	tigok
footstool	timbanin
uvula	tilao
sudden spurt	tilarok
strong spurt	tilandog
bamboo stilt	tiyakad
pool	tubog
short medium	tukil
featherless bird	tukang
involuntary nod	tukaki
poultry feed	patuka
voice	boses
building	edipisyo
Pampanga	Basa
insistence	giit
justice	katarungan
beach	aplaya
seacoast	dalampasigan
howl	tambaw
loud splash	tambog
reecho	ulyaw
tapeworm	ulyabid
superstition	pamahiin
provincial capital	Pili
diploid banana cultivar	lakatan
line	linya
smoke	manigarilyo
pump	tungga
line	guhit
frame	balangkas
steep	matarik
intimate	matalik
narrow	makipot
weak	matamlay
tickle	kiliti
message	mensahe
exploded	sabog
lowland	labak
puff	hithit
arranged	sansan
Croatia	Kroasya
Chinese cabbage	pechay
power	kapangyarihan
short	maikli
opportunity	pagkakataon
chance	kapalaran
neat	maayos
vast expanse	lupalop
methodical	mahusay
created	nilalang
guide	gabay
mimicry	gagad
part	bahagi
acute	matindi
gloomy	malagim
honk	pugak
nest	pugad
coccyx	puil
blunt	pungol
horrified surprise	gikla
matron	ginang
young woman	gining
button	pindutan
press	pindot
web	sapot
kalahati	sangkatlo
wasp	putakti
clothesline	sampayan
claw	sipit
diligence	sipag
humankind	sangkatauhan
woman	bestida
scorpion	alakdan
emblem	sagisag
stew	kare-kare
hovel	barong-barong
ginger	luya
wire	kawad
splendor	dilag
burrow	lungga
girlfriend	syota
adopted child	ampon
employee	kawani
office	tanggapan
room	kuwarto
skirt	palda
security guard	sekyu
police	lespu
bahay	bahay-ampunan
June beetle	salagubang
bat	paniki
nickname	palayaw
grasshopper	tipaklong
research	saliksik
desire	pagnanasa
butt	upos
Echeverri	Echiverri
Iturralde	Ituralde
strict	estrikto
yesterday	kahapon
straw	dayami
last night	kagabi
day before yesterday	kamakalawa
remove	tagtag
boy	utoy
monthly	buwanan
war	digma
push	tulak
fatigue	pagal
hilltop	gulod
collision	bangga
naked	hubad
hermit	ermitanyo
woodpecker	tariktik
rattan	uway
lead	tingga
loss	tikang
dad	tatang
rotten	tayuto
cloth	tapal
appellation	sangko
foolish	pusong
vulva	puday
drunkard	lasenggo
fool	sirang ulo
bribery	kotong
suction	huthot
fugitive	pugante
slant-eyed	pingkit
chief	pinuno
underwater cave	lungib
smoking	paninigarilyo
sewer line	imburnal
corrupt	kurakot
rice granary	kamalig
ladder	hagdan
gullet	bunganga
grasp	dakot
swim	langoy
receive	sagap
west	kanluran
heart attack	atake sa puso
hypertension	altapresyon
hospital	pagamutan
pharmacy	parmasiya
ovary	obaryo
Easter Sunday	Linggo ng Pagkabuhay
light scratch	gurlis
Lent	Kuwaresma
Pentecost	Pentekostes
Labor Day	Araw ng mga Manggagawa
Gospel	Magandang Balita
Revelation	Pahayag
sunken	lubog
Judges	Mga Hukom
Epiphany	Pista ng Tatlong Hari
Valentine's Day	Araw ng mga Puso
scratch	kalmot
Quezon City	Lungsod Quezon
various species	balete
float	lutang
Lord	Panginoon
Luzon	Rizal
intestine	bituka
Advent	Adbiyento
sexual intercourse	pagtatalik
act	kuyakoy
extortion	pangingikil
rent	arkila
funeral home	punerarya
novena	nobena
loanword	salitang hiram
borrowed	hiram
smuggle	puslit
centipede	alupihan
firefly	alitaptap
cicada	kuliglig
notary public	notaryo
justice	hustisya
sucking	hithit-buga
mold	amag
sneeze	bahin
insane	may topak
deaf	bingi
New Year's Eve	Bisperas ng Bagong Taon
New Year	Bagong Taon
Palm Sunday	Linggo ng Palaspas
national holiday	Araw ng Kagitingan
Independence Day	Araw ng Kalayaan
All Saints' Day	Araw ng mga Patay
Eid al-Fitr	Pagtatapos ng Ramadan
fasting	pag-aayuno
confession	kumpisal
baptism	binyag
Hail Mary	Aba Ginoong Maria
Lord's Prayer	Ama Namin
Lamb of God	Kordero ng Diyos
Pope	Santo Papa
Easter	Paskuwa
Ordinary Time	Karaniwang Panahon
Ten Commandments	Sampung Utos
Christmas Eve	Bisperas ng Pasko
Mass	Simbang Gabi
Merry Christmas	Maligayang Pasko
Yuletide	Kapaskuhan
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year	Maligayang Pasko at Manigong Bagong Taon
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year	Maligayang Pasko at Masaganang Bagong Taon
rascal	tarantado
nonsense	walang kwenta
jerk	kadyot
fool	tangengot
act	kiskis
act	salsal
have sex	magtalik
insane	maluwag ang turnilyo
cheater	mandaraya
corrupt	tiwali
of that	niyan
plant	magtanim
plant	itanim
plant	tamnan
planting	panananim
crop	pananim
planter	manananim
parent-in-law	biyanan
shallow tray	biyay
clumsy climb	alapaw
athlete's foot	alipunga
strong offensive odor	alisangsang
neglectful	alisagsag
calm	tahimik
support	tahilan
spur	tahid
dry land	tahik
patent	tahaw
tallness	tagway
tall	matagway
violent coughing	taghok
delicious	malinamnam
full	malinab
infested	malinta
serious	malubha
concave	malukong
sad	malungkot
full	malumot
cruel	malupit
crispy	malutong
wide	maluwag
cry	umiyak
sit	umupo
stand	tumayo
bend	yumuko
tread	yumurak
rub	yumahod
become rich	yumaman
study	mag-aral
expose something	magyangyang
love	magmahal
divide up property left	magwahil
say something unpleasant	mangwika
spray	magwisik
coarse fiber	yunot
bend	pagyukdo
bend	yumukdo
play	magyoyo
act	pagyoyoyo
fatten animal	magyibok
fattening	yibok
trample	yumasak
extreme brittleness	yasang
tender	mayumi
tremble	yumanig
brag	yumabang
boastfulness	yabang
act	yabangan
fallen dried twig	yabat
place	yabatan
act	pagyayabang
boastful	mayabang
boastfulness	kayabangan
boast	magyabang
boast	magmayabang
yachting ground	yatihan
hardwood	yakal
rub	yahod
extreme thinness	yagong
extreme thinness	kayagungan
certain route	pagyagban
great number	yakos
foolish talk	yakyakan
crush	yakyakin
impetuosity	pagkamayakyak
Seventh-day Adventist	Sabadista
leafy	mayabong
luxuriant foliage	yabong
luxuriant foliage	kayabungan
become luxuriant	yumabong
record	plaka
broken record	sirang plaka
embrace	yumakap
act	pagyakap
envy	kayakyakan
rub	yakis
invitation	yakag
act	yakagan
act	pagyarda
work	magtrabaho
travel	maglakbay
urinate	umihi
defecate	tumae
sing	umawit
ask for	humingi
laugh	tumawa
smile	ngumiti
develop	umunlad
go with	sumama
go	pumunta
agree	pumayag
enter	pumasok
hope	umasa
fly	lumipad
float	lumutang
borrow	humiram
prevent	umiwas
go farther	lumayo
go home	umuwi
move	gumalaw
kill	pumatay
kiss	humalik
applaud	pumalakpak
cover up	yumupyop
pretended ignorance	walawala
main meaning	kawawaan
long piece	wayway
strike	welga
use	kutsarain
steal	magnakaw
teach	magturo
think	mag-isip
wash	maghugas
wash	maghilamos
win	magwagi
wipe	magpunas
win	manalo
watch	manood
waste	mag-aksaya
wash	maglaba
wake up	gumising
wait	maghintay
travel	magbiyahe
swim	lumangoy
stop	huminto
sleep	matulog
save	magtipid
sell	magtinda
sell	magbenta
put on shoe	magsapatos
change clothes	magbihis
play	maglaro
prison	bilangguan
pay	magbayad
lie	magsinungaling
go	magsimba
halfbeak	siliw
sell	magbili
reason	ikabilanggo
reason	ikagalit
careful	mag-ingat
insistent	pasaway
exasperated	mainis
abort	magpalaglag
scrape something in order to make	magyasyas
uniform	uniporme
uniformed	unipormado
kill	patayin
embarrassed	dyahe
dead	tepok
contract	kontrata
thin	payatot
subordinate	sunud-sunuran
sad	kawawa
fat	tabatsoy
chew	ngumuya
made smooth	yasyas
act	pagyayasyas
invite several people	magyaya
manufacture	yumari
act	yoyoan
play yo-yo	yoyoin
hundred	yuta-yuta
act	yupyop
fallen dried twig	yangit
interview	panayam
goldsmith	panday-ginto
blacksmith	pandayan
short	pandak
shortness	kapandakan
inspection	pandaw
pretending	tengang-kawali
edible crab	talangka
selfish	isip-talangka
showy	bongga
lead on	paasa
lewd	malandi
bosom	kalaguyo
covered	malibag
leftist	makakaliwa
congressman	kongresista
denture	pustiso
minor	menor de edad
left-handed	kaliwete
criminal	salarin
endpoint	upong
womanizer	babaero
voyeur	mamboboso
slow	yagyag
slow	pagyagyag
septic tank	poso negro
dark-skinned	nognog
pirated	kopyang sine
patintero	patotot
pirate	mamirata
invitation	pagyayakag
pickpocket	mandurukot
sprinkler	pangwilig
bahay	akyat-bahay
feeling	yamukmok
yuck	kadiri
water conduit	salulo
head-on collision	salumpong
person	saluno
spill	salwak
stench	bantot
school	kulisaw
clothes	saplot
girth	satiyan
steepness	tibong
pulse	tibok
trap	patibong
Chinese New Year	tikoy
thick	yamungmong
annoy	yumamot
pound	yabyab
lumpia	lumpiya
clean	malinis
disguise	magbalatkayo
diocese	diyosesis
storey	palapag
placenta	inunan
mile	milya
portrait	litrato
goblin	tiyanak
witch	mangkukulam
strip	salapid
mischievous	salanggapang
dehydrated	tigam
mental	tungag
cry	umuha
inquisitiveness	urira
inquisitive	maurira
hives	tagulabay
mortise	utab
protruding	usngal
watery humor	utitab
soybean	utaw
simpleton	uto
fart	umutot
act	pag-ut-ot
boastful	mapagmayabang
silly	uslak
culture	usog
act	usong
brainy	mautak
habit	kautalan
robust	matipuno
swell	mamaga
drug store	botika
bladed object	patalim
false god	diyos-diyosan
lie	kasinungalingan
namesake	tokayo
promise	pangako
nothing	waley
fired	sisante
particle	mumo
fire	sisantehin
driver	tsuper
cock-a-doodle-doo	tilaok
act	walay
vindicate	linisin ang pangalan
ringing telephone	kring-kring
prevention	kulob
bark	tahol
distant howling	alulong
sleeve	manggas
acrid	mapakla
worse	masahol
plentiful	masagana
burdensome	masagabal
avaricious	masakim
acrid	masaklap
gluttonous	masiba
diligent	masigasig
tempestuous	masigwa
arrogant	masiging
efficacious	masidhi
careful	masinop
inquisitive	masiyasat
boastful	matabil
bland	matabang
brackish	matabsing
irascible	masungit
moderate	matimpi
jerky	matigtig
economical	matipid
bright	matingkad
thorny	matinik
analytic	mausisa
rainy	maulan
reverberating	maugong
watery	matubig
productive	matubo
dull	matumal
sonorous	matunog
small monkey	matsing
sonorous	mataginting
peaceful	matahimik
fervent	mataimtim
sharp	matalim
erudite	matalisik
old	matanda
helpful	matangkakal
long	matangos
sincere	matapat
facile	matatas
yellowish	madilaw
talkative	madaldal
garrulous	madila
deceitful	madaya
quick	madali
sluggish	makupad
infrequent	madalang
elegant	makisig
brilliant	makinang
famous	mabunyi
unstable	mabuway
modest	mabini
round	mabilog
hot	maapoy
low	mababa
kind	mabait
fierce	mabalasik
sultry	mabanas
talkative	mabibig
elegant	mabikas
cat	muning
effective	mabisa
dusty	maalikabok
smarting	maantak
poet	makata
ringing	kalembang
this	itey
mischievous	letmaku
foolish	ogags
beat up	mangjombags
drink alcohol	tumoma
dead	deds
pout	busangot
stuttered speech	bulol
freshman	iskul-bukol
ambulant cigarette vendor	yosi boy
torpid	manhid
band	manuso
ladybird	marikita
sunny	maaraw
rough	maalon
bright	maaliwalas
legendary	maalamat
blazing	maalab
distant	maagwat
having plenty	maagos
prompt	maagap
early	maaga
can be	maaari
sultry	maalinsangan
salty	maasin
compassionate	maawain
fragrant	mahalimuyak
spicy	maanghang
diluted	malabnaw
mild	malumanay
active	maliksi
rowdy	maligalig
lukewarm	maligamgam
cold	maginaw
cold	malamig
wriggling movement	kalasaw
soft	kalasing
gargle	kalagkag
having	mapanghi
odor	panghi
having	mapalot
melancholic	mapanglaw
blunt	pangod
tedium	pantot
spring	pansol
sensual	pandot
side	panig
steal	dekwatin
quickly	mabilis sa alas-kuwatro
nightmare	bangungot
restaurant	karinderya
jailed	kalaboso
stunted	bansot
ambulant vendor	takatak boy
Bulaqueño	Bulakenyo
mischievously playful	maharot
semen	tamod
disrespectful	barumbado
challenge	maghanap ng sakit ng katawan
muddy	maputik
tight	masikip
maybe	marahil
shoot	pasabugin ang ulo
dove	kalapati
masturbate	magsalsal
masturbate	magjakol
defecate	umebak
trigger	gatilyo
patent	tampak
native clothes trunk	tampipi
serenity	tampay
wicked	tampalasan
black mourning veil	taong
damp soil	tayabutab
rubbish	tayamutan
overheated	tayangtang
figure of speech	tayutay
forked pole	tayukod
suspension	tayong
sputtering	tibalsik
chubby	tibalbal
sugarcane tip	tibtib
extract	tikitiki
coconut liquor	lambanog
pile	timbon
clear	tinaw
smoked fish	tinapa
having	matinga
having	tiwas
cane	tungkod
superabundant	tusak
native hat	turong
rice crust	tutong
liquid	tuyong
obtuse	silsil
surge	simpok
cooked rice	sinaing
thinking	sining
artistic	masining
small bamboo wine cup	singgalong
greenhorn	singki
epicanthic fold	singkit
slit	singit
wet nurse	sisiwa
cover	suklob
simmering	sulak
silt	labon
silted	malabon
point out	tukoy
linguist	dalubwika
held	yapos
tread	yapak
hanging	yangyang
ravelled	yanot
happen	mangyari
wilted	lugot
hanging loose	lugay
financial loss	lugi
collapsed	lugso
prostrate	lugpo
overripe	lulot
soft mud	lunaw
sheaf	lumpok
swallow	lunok
green	lunti
greenness	kaluntian
vomit	lungad
large hole	lungaw
withered	luoy
major indigenous ethnolinguistic group	Yakan
big bowl	mangkok
frayed	nasnas
numbness	ngalay
gum	ngidngid
noise	ngikngik
small	ngima
smile	ngiti
kind	paaga
perfume	pabango
dent	pakang
having poor hearing	paking
lean	pagang
shrill shout	palakat
trawl	palakaya
type	palang
rocky shore	palanas
tranquil	panatag
hypocrisy	patumapat
weathercock	patubiling
carried	payid
wag	payupoy
shrug	piksi
shallow lagoon	pinak
frame	pinpin
flatulence	kabag
riverbank	pampang
divorce	diborsiyo
dead	binawian ng buhay
cover	taklob
excessive	tabal
something add	tabag
insipid	sagasag
close weave	saginsin
presentiment	sagimsim
cracking noise	sagaak
obstacle	sagabal
aground	sadsad
act	sadlok
fall	sadlak
act	sakol
prodigal	masakmata
stanza	saknong
entanglement	saklit
bend	yukod
dish	laing
carried away	lalad
bahay	bahay-bata
brother	utol
order	utos
loss	uyot
sprout	suloy
southeast	timog-silangan
something extra add	timbaw
taste	tumimos
northwest	hilagang-kanluran
soap opera	telenobela
film	pelikula
box office	takilya
ventilation	bentilasyon
police	pulisya
engineer	inhinyero
pawnshop	sanglaan
investigate	magsiyasat
wet market	talipapa
lamppost	poste ng ilaw
light	ilaw
machine producer	makinista
carpenter	karpintero
writer	manunulat
parish priest	kura-paroko
guard	guwardiya
veterinarian	beterinaryo
proper	wasto
farmer	magsasaka
columnist	kolumnista
scientist	siyentipiko
expert	dalubhasa
glare	silaw
northeast	hilagang-silangan
jawbone	sihang
inspiration	sigya
tempest	sigwa
fisher	mangingisda
have heavy rain	sumigwa
twig	siit
blaze	silab
casual	siglap
glimpse	siglaw
lively enthusiasm	sigsa
diligence	sigasig
torch	sigsig
oppressor	maniniil
irresponsive answer	silambang
dusk	silim
cyclist	siklista
peep	silip
pride	siging
shout	sigaw
intensity	sidhi
foreign affairs	ugnayang panlabas
snap	sikmat
tide	sikal
referendum	reperendum
plebiscite	plebisito
heap	tumpok
rebellion	rebelyon
police station	istasyon ng pulis
piece	pidpid
constabulary	konstabularyo
drenched	pigta
cell	selda
correctional facility	koreksyonal
jailbreak	pagpuga
prison	karsel
stamp	tabog
stamp	pagdabog
act	dakol
continuous blowing	dagisdis
act	dagison
continuous droning sound	daginding
rain cloud	dagim
dark	madagim
grazing	dagil
physical effort	dahak
resounding fall	dagubang
noisy blaze	dagubdob
mechanical grinding sound	daguldol
downward slide	dagusdos
cobia	dalag-dagat
loud reverberation	dagundong
species	tuhak
eel	tulanasan
hang out	tambayan
daybreak	bukang-liwayway
early morning	madaling-umaga
daybreak	madaling-araw
hot dry season	tag-init
spring	tagsibol
winter	taglamig
venom	kamandag
venomous	makamandag
superficial	yapsaw
phase	yugto
Cavite	Dasmariñas
Maria	Consolacion
slight touch	sagid
cardinal	kardenal
temporary enjoyment	sakam
rhetoric	sayusay
cackle	putak
song	tagumpay
shrewish	mataray
footstep	tapak
bureau	kawanihan
similitude	wangis
mockery	uyam
lack	utdo
chimney	pausukan
very loud cry	uraw
bellow	ungal
painful	agoy
pond scum	liya
lump	luog
influenza	trangkaso
editorial	editoryal
accreditation	akreditasyon
centavo	sentimo
one hundred percent	isang daang porsyento
sangkatlo	sangkapat
replete	pundakan
seedling	punla
anthill	punso
state	puril
fish	pusag
movement	pusaw
small amount	putal
foreign body	puwing
topknot	puyod
tête-à-tête	rayama
close confidant	karayama
divided	saak
boil	saing
bird	salay
square	parisukat
hectare	hektarya
centimeter	sentimetro
sole	talampakan
missile	misayl
lock	kandado
speed limit	takdang bilis
pencil sharpener	pantasa
tap water	tubig-gripo
hydrophobia	takot sa tubig
salt water	tubig alat
freshwater	tubig tabang
heretic	erehe
eyetooth	pangil
tendon	litid
fragrant	yapang
sexual intercourse	yangga
shakes	yanggi
handsome	yantaw
beautiful	yansumi
variety store	yantadig
crestfallen	yukayok
violent shaking	yugayog
obeisance	yupapa
overhanging	yungyong
act	yugyog
drunk	wenggol
flap	yagpag
peeping tom	usbing
extreme thinness	payagpag
person rich	mayamanin
lessen	tighoy
postscript	tighabol
solid lump	tigkal
cut	tigpas
saturated	tigmak
young	tigiti
target	tigpo
small piece	tilad
loud	tilalay
resounding crash	tilagpak
tilapia	tilapya
upward spurt	tilandoy
lifesaver	timbulan
humidity	timig
ravine	labing
edible species	tulingan
grub	ulalo
small bag	ulapot
pleasant	ulayaw
joke	tudyo
Goson	Gozon
signature	pirma
Bulacan	Bulacan
Tayabas	Quezon
very impatient	atat
moderation	lumay
shallow pond	lumbak
small gathering	lumpon
big	butete
ant	guyam
grin	ngisi
cousin	pinsan
dig	magkali
small kitchen knife	kampit
even	sukdan
mutual verbal accusation	sudsuran
strongly scented herb	sulasi
support	suhay
large bowl	sulyaw
forked pole	sundong
forked pole	panundong
censer	suuban
extra layer	suson
kingfisher	susulbot
silk	sutla
cunning	suwitik
candle	tulod
kawakawa	tulingang-puti
stupid	tulingag
kind	tulaga
swaying motion	tugya
top	tugatog
stupid	tugak
act	tudla
baby	tukarol
spotted moonfish	tsabita
champagne	tsampan
kind	titil
sudden	tiplag
fife	tipano
oil lamp	tinghoy
craw	tingka
measure	timuro
big wave	daluyong
very beginning	sapol
species	sapsap
lower back	sasapnan
intense	masasal
fighting cock	sasabungin
complete	sayod
cherry	seresa
obscene	mahalay
grave	malala
dark	malaita
hair	malabuhok
excessive	malabis
gossiper	malabiga
luxuriant	malabay
loving	mairog
envious	mainggitin
easily bored	mainipin
pretty	mainam
good	maigi
short	maigsi
wild	mailap
avaricious	maimbot
economical	maimpok
fond	maibigin
tight	mahigpit
fond	mahilig
luxuriant	mahitik
miraculous	mahiwaga
advantageous	mahigit
sharp	mahayap
advantageous	malamang
dim	malamlam
seductive	malamuyot
shallow	malanday
strong	malakas
species	malakawayan
solicitude	malasakit
surfeit	malastiga
tedious	malawig
sticky	maligat
roundabout	maligoy
late	maliwag
brilliant	maluningning
glorious	maluwalhati
broad	maluwang
rice straw	mamak
grandfather	mamay
fermented	mam-is
critic	mamumuna
mountaineer	mamumundok
smuggler	mamumuslit
large intestine	malaking bituka
bathtub	banyera
rice weevil	bukbok
birth	kapanganakan
witchcraft	kulam
vampire	manananggal
nose ring	pakaw
wooden rattle	pakanlog
trumpet	pakakak
gift	pakipkip
beeswax	pagkit
pat	pagikpik
soft	pagispis
hoarseness	pagaw
betray	magtaksil
commit adultery	makiapid
adultery	pakikiapid
heel	sakong
circumflex	pakupya
spirit summoner	mambabarang
merman	siyokoy
bird	sarimanok
quotation mark	panipi
grave accent	paiwa
acute accent	pahilis
rub	magpahid
seminary	seminaryo
spider	botogs
lighter	layter
monarchy	monarkiya
socialism	sosyalismo
gate	tarangkahan
unfaithful	mangaliwa
dirty	babuyin
vandalism	bandalismo
piglet	biik
fertilizer	pataba
close	isara
paddy	palayan
small	buslo
elephant	gadya
yard	bakuran
bakery	panaderya
gas station	gasolinahan
repair shop	talyer
anarchy	anarkiya
wooden soup bowl	hawong
state	tupok
lance	gayang
embryo	bilig
since	yamang
since	yayamang
mortar	lusong
plane	katam
bread mold	apaya
coldness	lamig
cage	kulungan
meaning	kahulugan
collar	kuwelyo
day before yesterday	kinahapunan
surprised	magulat
give birth	manganak
prostrate	talamak
first step	talalan
biography	talambuhay
close	talamitam
plateau	talampas
courage	talaghay
courage	katalaghayan
kans grass	talahib
line	talata
paragraph	talataan
hissing sound	talhak
scale	talaro
spurt	taliris
flat	talipya
hypocrite	talipandas
young fish	talipa
mole	nunal
small intestine	talitis
abandonment	taliwakas
ancient boat song	talindaw
lost count	talimang
hoax	talimangmang
black hole	talihalat
loose	talihabso
hoax	talikba
great effort	talikakas
boundary	taliktik
species	talilong
cover	talob
reduced	talpog
middle-aged	talubata
hard shell	talukab
tight	talubanat
head veil	talukbong
granary	talungtong
tamarind	sampalok
frank talk	tambaas
half-hearted offer	tambisi
overload	tambanggalan
species	tambiki
proxy	tambag
exposed	tambad
big	tambugak
small deer	tambukulan
chain	tanikala
planting season	tagtanim
light	tanglaw
large earthenware jar	tapayan
handle	tatangnan
chip	tatal
douchi	tawsi
false alarm	tibadbad
foot disease	tibak
correct	tibalyaw
get-together	tibaw
black pockmark	tibatib
poking	dutdot
hollow	lubak
home run	lubig
grouper	lubo
chatty	masabi
message	pasabi
cluster	langkay
stretcher	langkayan
stench	lantot
bad odor	lantong
indecent	lantod
idler	lantutay
long	lanubo
sound	langasngas
scab	langib
skin	laping
plane	lapya
flat nose	lapyad
crumpled	lapurit
frayed	larot
rooster	lasak
nice taste	lasap
heartwood	lasgas
torn	lasog
bamboo sieve	lastay
fold	kuton
haircut	kutyog
strike	kutos
throb	kutog
pimp	kuwekong
Pharaoh ant	kuwitib
dented	kuyumpit
tiny young louse	kuyumad
exit	labasan
flight	lipad
hope	pag-asa
extensive	lanap
lagoon	lanaw
love	pag-ibig
love	pagmamahal
factory	pagawaan
winter	tagginaw
arrival	pagdating
act	kopya
high school	mataas na paaralan
cake	keyk
corner	sulok
noise	ingay
butter	mantikilya
wallet	pitaka
hat	sumbrero
eyesore	sulyak
disgust	sulukasok
large round bamboo fish pot	sulyang
luggage	bagahe
toilet	kubeta
postage stamp	selyo
claw	pingkok
crooked	pingkaw
warlikeness	kapingahan
mutual aid	pintakasi
long	pisaw
longing	pithaya
detached	pitaw
flattened	pitpit
complete turn	piyok
nick	pingal
biting	masigid
sharpness	sigid
saltwater	tugno
indigo plant	tayom
touch	tawtaw
work	talisuyo
slanting	talibas
mistake	talibadbad
reversed	talibad
act	talibatab
bowknot	talibugso
long-tailed goby fish	talimusak
sound produce	tagupak
splash	tabsik
furious	sibasib
act	sibig
mire	pusali
decortication	halibhib
repeated stab	halihaw
flogging	halubid
superficial	hambaw
lascivious	handak
chopped	hapak
short	hapag
Last Supper	Huling Hapunan
snore	harok
jasper	haspe
geranium	heranyo
region	hibaybay
enigma	hibat
torn	hiklas
poorly made	hilako
ointment	hinas
relative	hinlog
mystery	hiwaga
court of first instance	hukumang unang dulugan
court of appeals	hukuman sa paghahabol
signal	hudyat
doltish	hunghang
fumigation	suob
placeholder name	Juan dela Cruz
suspicion	suspetsa
exchange	tuway
scare away	mambugaw
mercury	asoge
ignorant	mangmang
I don't know	ewan ko
level	patag
I don't speak English	hindi ako marunong mag-Ingles
I'm a Catholic	Katoliko ako
do you believe in God	nananampalataya ka ba sa Diyos
I'm lost	naligaw ako
beware of the dog	mag-ingat sa aso
no smoking	bawal manigarilyo
no parking	bawal pumarada
please turn right	kumanan ka
the toilet is clogged	barado ang inodoro
I've been robbed	ninakawan ako
I don't care	wala akong pakialam
I don't understand	hindi ko maintindihan
I'll call the police	tatawagan ko ang pulis
pleased to meet you	masayang makilala kita
welcome	maligayang pagdating
how old are you	ilang taon ka na
excuse me	pasintabi
he's unconscious	wala siyang malay
do you have any brothers or sisters	may mga kapatid ka ba
I have asthma	may hika ako
I have a fever	nilalagnat ako
I have cancer	may kanser ako
I have a question	may tanong ako
question	tanong
eraser	pambura
cut off	putulan
anatomy	anatomiya
cheap	magmura
yearly	taunan
invalidate	ipawalang-bisa
void	walang bisa
paint	magbrotsa
paintbrush	brotsa
damage	pinsala
wise	marunong
stained	marungis
ardent	marubdob
mangosteen	manggustan
amazement	mangha
slow	marahan
aggressive	marahas
handsome	marilag
well-off	mariwasa
abominable	marawal
honorable	marangal
stingy	maramot
just	marapat
price	presyo
friar	prayle
act	pagpirot
twirl	pirutin
splash	pumisik
treasure	gambang
large spider	gambagamba
deep	galusgos
earthen jar	galong
loud laughter	galakgak
pitch	galagala
basket	galalan
fine dust	galabok
settled dust	gabok
dusty	magabok
bran	darak
stinging pain	antak
spouse	jowa
clear	klaro
great blaze	lagablab
sound	lagaklak
sawfish	lagaring-pating
sound	lagasaw
stale	lagibas
creak	lagitlit
noise	lagislis
draw-well	lagumba
basting stitch	lagwat
gradually sloping	lalay
raise	magtaas
hold	magtaban
act	pagtaban
broken	punggal
abstinence	pangilin
armful	pangko
decoy	pangati
ambition	pangarap
defeated	olats
sour mien	mukhasim
frown	simangot
wink	pagkindat
giggle	bungisngis
dishwasher	tagahugas ng plato
bolo	gulok
how	gaano
severe form	guham
lewd	malaswa
recollection	gunita
big	habubos
underpants	salawal
sudden pull	haklit
obstruction	hadlang
raspy	hagahas
coarse	hagakhak
snip	gupit
play dead	magpatay-patayan
overthrow	magkudeta
disability	kapansanan
agreement	kasunduan
clarification	paglilinaw
clarification	klaripikasyon
dessert	panghimagas
fond	palabasa
add	magdagdag
everlasting	walang hanggan
whet	hasain
sharpen	manghahasa
novelist	nobelista
professor	propesor
son of a bitch	anak ng puta
son of a bitch	anak ng tupa
run over	sagasain
famine	taggutom
idiom	talinghaga
masochist	masokista
frisk	kapkapan
autopsy	awtopsiya
wild pig	baboy-ramo
port	daungan
snail	kuhol
billiards	bilyar
billiard room	bilyaran
sabotage	manabotahe
gunpowder	pulbura
necktie	kurbata
delegation	delegasyon
department	kagawaran
dialogue	dayalogo
dozen	dosena
foreign	banyaga
page	pahina
voltage	boltahe
gallant	magilas
thin slice	gayat
worry	mag-alala
slicer	panggayat
act	paggayat
slice	maggayat
happy	sumaya
Ordóñez	Ordoñez
butterfly	bilabila
walk	maglakad
help	tulong
short story	maikling kuwento
barter	palitan
sadness	lungkot
happiness	kasiyahan
tiny	munsik
suggestion	mungkahi
snicker	humagikgik
abuse	pagmamalupit
file	magsumbong
file	isumbong
permit	pahintulot
fight	lumaban
stab	saksakin
whisper	bumulong
deviate	lumihis
disobey	sumuway
disobedience	pagsuway
drive	magmaneho
towel	tuwalya
sign	karatula
prickly heat	bungang-araw
manipulate	manipulahin
splash	tampisaw
sympathy	simpatiya
sweat	magpawis
inject	magturok
cherub	kerubin
contractor	kontratista
molest	mangmolestiya
molest	molestiyahin
heads or tails	kara-krus
constitution	saligang batas
Constitution	Saligang Batas
shoemaker	sapatero
Tuason	Tiongson
Indonesian	Indones
palace	palasyo
mosquito net	kulambo
lymph node	kulani
mist	kulap
cicada	kulilis
quagmire	kulunoy
their	kanila
your	inyo
decayed	gapo
hit	batukan
acting	hinayupak
demolish	buwagin
Saint Peter	San Pedro
cursed	lintik
have sex	magseks
large penis	tarugo
twin	kambal
smoke	magyosi
true	totoo
native	katutubo
Viagra	Bayagra
surround	kuyugin
calm	matiwasay
basket	kaing
adult male carabao	kalakyan
resin	kalamak
idle gossip	kalantari
copra	kalibkib
shiver	kaligkig
residue	kalot
ravine	kalugay
large basket	kalya
grindstone	kamanga
heavy	kasag
juicy	makatas
desert	ilang
poet	manunula
ancestor	ninuno
well	pasang
anchor	pasangit
jump	patok
scar	peklat
pressed	pigis
pin	aspile
mange	dusdos
nap	idlip
grunt	igik
slide downward	dumausdos
rustle	kaluskos
toy trumpet	torotot
hernia	luslos
turmeric	luyang dilaw
shield	kalasag
press conference	pulong balitaan
board	hurado
person	huramentado
run amok	maghuramentado
sadness	lumbay
racketeer	raketero
hand glove	guwantes
groove	kutab
owl	kuwago
former coin	kusing
big blaze	dagabdab
noise	dagalwak
sudden	dagasdas
abbreviation	daglat
isthmus	dalahikan
cultivated highland	dalatan
forefinger	hintuturo
large dragonfly	hintutubi
champac	tsampaka
responsibility	pananagutan
keyhole	susian
bunt	suwag
smear	hilahid
slippery	labso
swish	labtik
long stride	lakdang
take	lumakdang
act	pupol
talkative	makati ang dila
file	magdemanda
decoration	dekorasyon
decoration	palamuti
expression	hesusmaryosep
engage	magbenta ng laman
snout	nguso
massacre	masaker
death	kamatayan
assault rifle	armalayt
quarry	tibagan
seafarer	mandaragat
hell	impiyerno
provoke	mang-udyok
provoke	udyukan
statue	istatuwa
kata-kata	katakata
priority	prayoridad
violence	karahasan
experience	karanasan
territory	teritoryo
patriotic	makabayan
opposite	kabaligtaran
reverse	baligtad
opposite	taliwas
public service	serbisyong publiko
public transport	pampublikong transportasyon
test	pagsusulit
cause	mag-alboroto
meanness	kabulastugan
obscenity	kahalayan
fare	pasahe
fine physique	linuknok
mannequin	maoy
human spoor	manusya
poor	maralita
sensitive	maramdamin
pompous	marangya
grand	maringal
high	marurok
scale	kaliskis
circumflex	maragsa
custody	kustodiya
bent	baluktot
Macaraig	Macaraeg
bass	malagong
intimate	laguyo
pontoon	bangkilas
multicolored rooster	bangkas
light stroke	bantil
stagnant	mabantot
whale shark	butanding
siblinghood	kapatiran
neighborhood	kapitbahayan
foresight	sapantaha
voice	tinig
container	lagayan
corruption	katiwalian
ceasefire	tigil-putukan
leper	ketongin
cooperative	kooperatiba
offer	alok
proposal	panukala
violate	lumabag
violation	paglabag
franchise	prangkisa
post	magpaskil
fish	mangisda
citizen	mamamayan
community	pamayanan
town hall	bahay pamahalaan
police force	kapulisan
berm	pilapil
detailed	detalyado
shumai	siomai
four	kuwatro
seven	siyete
nine	nuwebe
ten	diyes
row	sagansan
coldness	ginaw
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜀ
inherit	magmana
Macau	Hizon
Middle Ages	Gitnang Panahon
second	ikalawa
proof	patunay
attractive	kaakit-akit
slug	lintang-kati
high	malayog
elevation	layog
like that	gayon
appellation	ditse
martial law	batas militar
dahlia	dalya
olive oil	langis ng oliba
lettuce	letsugas
apricot	albarikoke
jellyfish	dikya
asparagus	esparago
cauliflower	koliplor
cassava	kamoteng-kahoy
beet	remolatsa
asafoetida	inggo
mushroom	kabute
plum	sirwelas
watcher	bakay
prayer	dalangin
contraband	kontrabando
bend	liko
snore	hilik
joy	tuwa
wash	hugasan
Quezon City	Morato
Biñan	Alonte
tree	bitaog
mildness	lumanay
soft	lunot
fervent	lunggati
light bump	dunggol
dirt	dusing
comparison	paghahambing
conspiracy	sabwatan
accessory	kasabwat
rock paper scissors	jak-en-poy
unaware	natutulog sa pansitan
kumapit	kumapit sa patalim
beautiful	diwata
bravery	tapang
rapid stamping	tarang
long	tarat
arrogance	taray
metal filings	tayubasi
weak gasping	tikab
hectare	ektarya
theater	dulaan
poor	dukha
inkwell	dinsulan
famished	dayukyok
bite	dawi
aphid	dapulak
measure	dapal
altar	dambana
extreme hunger	dalurok
college	dalubhasaan
scientist	dalub-agham
open sea	dagatan
guinea pig	dagang puti
comma	kuwit
wart	kulugo
slight haziness	kulabo
cookies	kukis
day after tomorrow	samakalawa
listen	pakinggan
Tuason	Sioson
insistent	mapilit
red	mayahin
dullness	tumal
route	tumpa
route	pagtumpa
stupid	tunggak
stupidity	katunggakan
surround	sukol
spy	espiya
lovesickness	amoritis
albino	anak-araw
having	maanak
child	anak-pawis
suave	anayad
form	anayo
last rinsing	anlaw
moderate	banayad
unintelligible murmuring	lingawngaw
row	kalinggalan
pulsation	kutob
turmoil	linggaw
narrow	linggi
species	lingindayat
stupefied	lingming
widespread	lipana
plowshare	lipya
pulse beat	litik
pried loose	litang
adult	maygulang
mazurka	masurka
one kind	panay
type	monay
good	matamis ang dila
stubborn	matigas ang ulo
wealthy person	matabang isda
slow	mahinay
evil person	masamang damo
bald	kutipyo
dish mixture	padpo
hollowed	sandakati
light touch	sanggi
idler	sanggano
protrusion	sangod
blemish	sangmukti
sweet basil	sangig
strong disagreeable odor	sanghid
wound	sapnit
threaded tool	sikwan
bobbin	simpian
narrowness	simpit
many task	salwa
tiny pimple	samasam
accumulation	sambog
chew	nguya
middle name	gitnang pangalan
young	kilaw
imitation	tulad
hand-to-hand fight	hamok
impatience	inip
sparkle	kislap
spanker	pamalo
demon	demonyo
apology	patawad
armor	baluti
entrance	pasukan
representative	kinatawan
prescription	reseta
indulgence	indulhensiya
forgiveness	kapatawaran
possessed	sinaniban
intention	hangad
colonialism	kolonyalismo
pustule	panyakit
snuffer	panutog
light	hipig
squirming	hirol
slashing noise	laganas
extreme thinness	lagod
sound	laguslos
gruff	lanog
singing	lanlan
sunken	langal
elongated	langkaw
idle	langayak
spongy	langkal
caressing expression	langyot
type	lapig
sheet	laskuta
nude	lastag
ballet	baley
surely	piho
juncture	hugpong
wideness	luwang
twine	bidbid
jostling	gitgit
head	iling
Loriculus philippensis	kulasisi
armpit	kilikili
gill	hasang
palate	ngalangala
pawn	isangla
tangerine	ponkan
just now	ngangayon
continuous	ngayngay
space	ngingi
ovary	bahay-itlog
Butastur indicus	tikwi
thyroid gland	kulangi
dismantled	baklas
jute fiber	langgotse
inhaler	langhapan
glassfish	langaray
life preserver	salbabida
ladle	sandok
rivulet	sanog
inhalation	sangab
barley	sebada
whistling	sipol
acridness	pakla
small moth	gamugamo
slime	alabwab
surface dust	alabok
dusty	maalabok
abortion	pagpapaagas
account	salaysay
heavily beaten	bugbog-sarado
gutom	patay-gutom
no	dehins
brain	kokote
connecting	dugtong
legend	alamat
leaking	batiti
positive	lantay
knowledge	malay
draw water	mag-igib
activist	aktibista
ankle	buol
piglet	buwik
namesake	kaalan
ductile	makunat
lousy	makuto
slow	makuyad
infested	madaga
full	madagta
leafy	madahon
meaningful	madiwa
dramatic	madula
shaky	magalaw
oblique	hiwas
wish	hiling
worker	manggagawa
bowlegged	sakang
mixture	sahog
mouthful	samuol
aroma	samyo
woven	sawali
mention	sambit
clothes	sampay
kind	luwan
slowness	luway
torn	lutay
cudgel blow	batikos
woodpecker	batuktok
howl	bawaw
Venus	Benus
crack	bitak
trail	bulaos
Cancer	Alimango
Orion	Balatik
jeer	atsoy
jeer	umatsoy
nuisance	asungot
numbness	mitig
ambition	mithi
mummy	momya
frown	mungot
knowledge	muwak
thick liquid	muyangit
act	sakop
answer	sagutin
premonition	salagimsim
very light touch	salagoy
hobnob	salamuha
clothes	salapot
superficiality	salapsap
turmoil	salawsaw
generation	salinlahi
slow	saloy
underline	salungguhit
hard-boiled duck egg	penoy
wag	payipoy
deacon	diyakono
manliness	pagkalalaki
gloom	lagim
goose bump	kilabot
heron	tagak
tilt	tagilid
store	mag-imbak
invest	mamuhunan
biodegradable	nabubulok
wage	sahod
hip	balakang
pelt	ratratin
thud	kalabog
angered	mainit ang ulo
angry	kumukulo ang dugo
clogged	barado
act	imbento
thin gold chain	kalibid
diluted	kanaw
species	kandanggaok
money	pamasahe
traitor	traydor
clock	orasan
spending	gugol
macapuno	makapuno
virgin	birhen
charm	bighani
astride	bisaklat
pregnant	buntis
tail	buntot
lowly slave	busabos
wound	buswang
doorknob	busol
wen	butlig
vocabulary	talasalitaan
speech	talumpati
time limit	taning
true	tunay
reply	tugon
gluttony	takaw
short	takdang
heel	takong
crooked	baliko
oar	gaod
Chinese ancestry	Sangley
act	uyad
kind	uyom
guest of honor	panauhing pandangal
firecracker	paputok
burst	putok
nineteen	labinsiyam
depth	lalim
lathe work	lalik
picture	larawan
toy	laruan
lewd	laswa
residue	latak
leech	linta
severity	lubha
blunt	lusok
expert	bihasa
step	hakbang
means	hanapbuhay
offering	handog
smart	hapdi
aslant	hiwis
hollow	hungkag
revolution	himagsikan
end	dulo
boastful	hambog
slipping	dulas
cross-eyed	duling
thistle	pamingkit
appetizer	pampagana
loop	likaw
statue	likha
crowd	libumbon
soft	lamod
single coil	libid
ticklish	maligawgaw
ticklish feeling	ligawgaw
sullen look	liling
tick	garapata
street corner	eskinita
impediment	bagko
thump	bagok
fed up	bagot
soft wing feather	bagwis
rainbow	bahaghari
step	baitang
obstacle	balaksila
rafter	balakilan
dried bark	balakbak
small fish basket	balanan
wonder	balaghan
double	balaraw
luxury	luho
unfaithful	salawahan
traitor	taksil
carjacker	karnaper
follow	buntutan
sandpaper	papel de liha
crêpe paper	papel de Hapon
mistreat	maltratuhin
overflow	umapaw
shriek	tumili
incense	insenso
mop	panlampaso
out of tune	sintunado
out	magladlad
prisoner	kakosa
I don't care	wala akong paki
rubberneck	usisero
small moustache	bigotilyo
sarado	balbas-sarado
rake	kalaykay
set aside	ibahaw
rural	promdi
person	petmalu
street brawl	rambulan
temporary	panandalian
look above	tumingala
rightist	maka-kanan
prostitution	panandaliang aliw
newcomer	bagong salta
fulfill	tupad
lewdness	kalaswaan
prostitute	magbenta ng panandaliang aliw
prostitute	nagbebenta ng laman
swallow	lunukin
kapit	kapit-tuko
kapit	kapit tuko
relieve	mabunutan ng tinik
daring	ayaw paawat
rip off	denggoyin
betraying	pagtataksil
treachery	kataksilan
eyelash	pilikmata
attention	wala sa wisyo
sa	kulang sa pansin
tawag	tawag-pansin
in favor	sumang-ayon
love	giliw
jig dance	indak
covered	mabutig
covered	butigan
paunch	buyon
pot-bellied	buyunin
spendthrift	buyaya
ignore	ipagsawalang-bahala
fraudster	manggagantso
swindle	manggantso
swelling	hilab
inhale	singhutin
puff	hithitin
Celsius	Sentigrado
slang	salitang kalye
shares	katukayo
penis	manoy
school	eskuwela
school	eskuwelahan
belch	dighay
frame	kuwadro
katawan	naghahanap ng sakit ng katawan
angered	bugnutin
memorize	isaulo
Mass	misa de aguinaldo
competition	paligsahan
competitor	kakumpetensya
drunk	senglot
coal-fired stove	kalan de uling
hearing	pagdinig
hearing	pandinig
skilled	sanay
essay	sanaysay
stanza	taludturan
power plant	planta ng kuryente
mining	pagmimina
like	kursonada
sign	senyas
full moon	kabilugan ng buwan
league	legwas
dig	mangamote
electric shock	makuryente
electric chair	silya elektrika
embezzle	kamkam
buy wholesale	mamakyaw
doubt	alinlangan
wrinkle	kulubot
coconut plantation	niyugan
darkness	kadiliman
devil	diyablo
popping sound	lagutok
blame game	sisihan
black sheep	itim na tupa
removed	tanggal
large	garapon
China	Fukien
millionaire	milyonaryo
consecutive	sunod-sunod
next	sunod
cool	swabe
intimidate	sindakin
startled	magugulatin
idler	usyoso
rendezvous	tagpuan
sail	maglayag
tendency	kunsintidora
clear	ligpitin
informant	impormante
circuitous	paligoy-ligoy
common sense	sentido komun
hold	kumapit
sabotage	pananabotahe
infrastructure	imprastruktura
infrastructure	imprastraktura
anger	init ng ulo
scared	matatakutin
act	isnabin
snub	isnabero
snob	isnabera
truancy	bulakbol
walk	lumakad
Masbate City	Masbate
eat	manimot
steamroller	pison
prayer	orasyon
finnicky	pihikan
vanish	maglaho
population	populasyon
pale	maputla
drunkard	lasenggero
maneuver	magmaniobra
low	bakawan
worn out	pudpod
derail	madiskaril
situation	sitwasyon
inspiration	inspirasyon
concentration	konsentrasyon
opposition	oposisyon
pollution	polusyon
modernization	modernisasyon
logical	lohikal
celebration	pagdiriwang
fuel	panggatong
fool	bilugin ang ulo
crazy	masiraan ng ulo
soft-spoken	malamya
inventory	imbentaryo
petition	petisyon
benefit	benepisyo
complicated	masalimuot
worry	agam-agam
target	puntirya
restaurant	restawran
run amok	magdilim ang paningin
commit suicide	magpakamatay
bored	magpatiwakal
approximation	kuwenta
connotation	konotasyon
corner	panulukan
verification	beripikasyon
luxurious	maluho
confirmation	kumpirmasyon
contribution	kontribusyon
agent	ahente
sail seaward	pumalaot
attack	tambangan
slash	maglaslas
suicide	pagpapatiwakal
spouse	kaisang-dibdib
wed	mag-isang-dibdib
taunt	tuyain
elope	magtanan
point of view	punto de bista
dying	naghihingalo
lust	tawag ng laman
carnality	kamunduhan
worldly	makamundo
active	masugid
delicate	maselan
prudishness	delikadesa
disrespectful	pabalang
similar	kamukha
irritate	mang-inis
damage	perwisyo
gamble	magsugal
lie down	humandusay
quarreling	parang aso't pusa
kayod	kayod-kalabaw
work hard	kumayod
salute	magbigay-pugay
salute	pagpupugay
behead	pugutan
beheaded	pugot
reckless	walang habas
careless	walang pakundangan
merciless	walang awa
vulgar	masagwa
court	manligaw
courtship	panliligaw
obligation	obligasyon
policy	polisiya
stability	katatagan
fuss	kuskos-balungos
railway	daang-bakal
fierceness	bagsik
evil	halang ang bituka
revenge	paghihiganti
retaliate	maghiganti
check	tseke
stroll	maglamyerda
insult	panunuya
loud	bulyaw
punishment	parusa
widespread	laganap
escape bondage	magwala
wink	kindat
dilate	manlisik
groper	manghihipo
masculine	tigasin
ineffective	wa epek
politicize	mamulitika
lying down	higa
champion	kampyon
relocation	relokasyon
specialist	espesyalista
application	aplikasyon
explanation	eksplanasyon
testimony	testimonya
microbe	mikrobyo
co-parent-in-law	balae
explanation	paliwanag
while	miyentras
implication	sangkot
drunk	nakainom
journalist	mamahayag
explosive	pampasabog
businessman	negosyante
negotiator	negosyador
mediator	tagapamagitan
gear stick	kambyo
accelerator pedal	silinyador
cramps	pulikat
unskilled laborer	pahinante
dispatcher	dispatser
civil marriage	kasal sa huwes
arraignment	pagbasa ng sakdal
file	maghabla
sugar factory	asukarera
snot-nosed	sipunin
common cold	sipon
contagious	nakakahawa
fully naked	hubo't hubad
familiar	pamilyar
bedbug	surot
insane	sira-ulo
arraign	basahan ng sakdal
confidence	kumpiyansa
self-confidence	kumpiyansa sa sarili
study hard	magsunog ng kilay
while	samantala
Spanish mackerel	tanigi
red snapper	maya-maya
accusation	paratang
fortune teller	manghuhula
manifestation	sumpong
Pharisee	Pariseo
Magi	Tatlong Hari
devotee	deboto
conceive	maglihi
misunderstanding	di-pagkakaunawaan
procession	prusisyon
activism	aktibismo
cashier	kahera
defecate	dumumi
deliberation	deliberasyon
employee	empleyado
top	ibabaw
shallowness	babaw
dictator	diktador
female dictator	diktadora
dilapidated	kakarag-karag
punishment	kastigo
meticulous	metikuloso
punish	kastiguhin
poison	lasunin
demolition	demolisyon
ransacking	halughog
perceived	malik-mata
meddle	makisawsaw
bankrupt	bangkarote
crutch	saklay
expensive	masakit sa bulsa
crowded	siksik
crowding	siksikan
first love	unang pag-ibig
true love	tunay na pag-ibig
commodity	kalakal
trade	mangalakal
schedule	iskedyul
design	disenyo
have fun	gumimik
constitution	konstitusyon
concubinage	mamangka sa dalawang ilog
favoritism	paboritismo
discrimination	diskriminasyon
favor	pabor
actual	aktuwal
usad	usad-pagong
sudden rush	bugso
prodigal son	alibughang anak
unfortunately	sa kasamaang palad
fortunately	sa kabutihang palad
view	pananaw
die	sumakabilang-buhay
socialist	sosyalista
mailman	kartero
tremble	nginig
full	kahindik-hindik
inauguration	inagurasyon
ideology	ideolohiya
collateral	kolateral
unsightly	di kaaya-aya
relative	kaanak
effect	epekto
miracle	himala
repair	kumpuni
careless	pabaya
carelessness	kapabayaan
institution	institusyon
witness	saksihan
prawn cracker	kropek
bigamy	bigamya
full force	hirit
orchestra seat	butaka
beneficiary	benepisyaryo
principle	prinsipyo
ratification	ratipikasyon
swindling	dugas
connect	ugnay
connection	kaugnayan
excuse	palusot
journalism	pamamahayag
ally	kakampi
firework	pailaw
dewy	mahamog
smoky	mausok
trickling water	lagaslas
duty	katungkulan
hair	sabunot
headache	sakit ng ulo
strangled	bigti
commit suicide	magbigti
strangle	bigtiin
same	pareho
implementation	pagpapatupad
trillion	trilyon
qualification	kwalipikasyon
modern	makabago
timing	tiyempo
call of duty	tawag ng tungkulin
hurt	saktan
detail	detalye
billion	bilyon
dance	sayawan
initiation	bunsod
extort	mangikil
chat	tsika
hurry	magmadali
recommendation	rekomendasyon
congregation	kongregasyon
inclined	bangkiling
supported	tuwang
series	serye
rumble	rambol
impose	pataw
opinion	opinyon
war	giyera
campaign	kampanya
mistrust	pangamba
spokesperson	tagapagsalita
watchful	mapagmatyag
discipline	disiplina
marble	marmol
cave	kuweba
tuberose	asusena
stain	mantsa
red junglefowl	labuyo
violent	bayolente
crime	kriminalidad
copy	mangopya
offensive	opensiba
dressing table	tukador
barrel	bariles
children	junakis
fool	ogag
orchid	sanggumay
analogy	analohiya
technology	teknolohiya
encyclopedia	ensiklopedya
vocabulary	bokabularyo
exaggeration	eksaherasyon
member	Huk
constellation	konstelasyon
giant trevally	talakitok
oligarchy	oligarkiya
secularism	sekularismo
rheumatism	rayuma
innocent	walang muwang
bounce	talbog
steal	nakaw
feces	ebak
charity	kawang-gawa
active	aktibo
majority	karamihan
stabbing	saksakan
state	kalagayan
criterion	panuntunan
inhalation	langhap
condemn	kundena
capital	kabisera
livelihood	kabuhayan
bleeding	pagdurugo
empire	imperyo
bone marrow	bulalo
joint	kasu-kasuan
orthography	ortograpiya
phoneme	ponema
drug addict	durugista
rabbitfish	danggit
stupid	gunggong
endearing name	taguri
diary	talaarawan
footnote	talababa
form	talabing
slope	talabis
compliance	talima
sound	taltak
hearing	dinig
listen	dinggin
swaying movement	gibang
emotional	emosyonal
cell	selula
chromatin	kromatina
score	iskor
sack	manloob
keyboard	teklado
biology	aghambuhay
biology	biyolohiya
chlorophyll	kloropila
curiosity	kuryosidad
physics	pisika
vitamin	bitamina
oregano	suganda
higop	igop
lesbian	shiboli
release	bitaw
release	bitiw
approval	aproba
act	beripika
gentle reminder	antig
foul smelling	maantot
repulsive odor	antot
claim	angkin
peculiar odor	anggo
smelling	maanggo
laden	ping-il
palate	asngal
gradual accumulation	atikha
suburb	kanugnog
forced open	bulwang
vegetable stew	bulanglang
fowl	bulihala
diarrhea	bululos
roll	talabunyian
hilly	maburol
double chin	kabil
your	ninyo
censorious	balabiga
wily	balakyot
insinuation	parinig
rock musician	rakista
chemistry	kemistri
jeepney	dyip
bite	mangagat
graduate	gradweyt
basil	balanoy
meddle	makialam
Ash Wednesday	Miyerkules ng Abo
rubella	tigdas hangin
tune	saliw
peep	manilip
twist	pilipit
rub	pahid
dragnet	kaladkad
grease payment	padulas
stumble	tisod
contrary	labag
anomaly	anomalya
female American	Amerikana
sourness	asim
wave	wasiwas
fallen prostrate	bulagta
reclined	tihaya
former province	Capiz
aquamarine	agwamarina
disgust	diri
sweets	kakainin
cogon grass	kugon
participant	kalahok
patronize	tangkilik
crumple	lamukos
supply	suplay
wanderer	palaboy
sake	kapakanan
grievance	hinaing
recognition	pagkilala
spectator	manonood
melted	lusaw
chief executive	punong ehekutibo
authorized	awtorisado
authorization	awtorisasyon
suspected	paghinalaan
suspicion	hinala
white	Puti
burden	pabigat
confrontation	komprontasyon
Philippines	Kanluran
Middle East	Gitnang Silangan
Southeast Asia	Timog-Silangang Asya
classroom	silid-aralan
statement	pahayag
mayor	alkalde
coordination	koordinasyon
commentary	komentaryo
basil	albahaka
covering	pandong
sardine	tamban
sea hibiscus	balibago
rehabilitation	rehabilitasyon
Mrs	misis
cashew	kasoy
deny	tanggi
headquarters	punong tanggapan
persevere	pursigi
Judgment Day	Araw ng Paghuhukom
Last Judgment	Huling Paghuhukom
Easter	Pasko ng Pagkabuhay
pronunciation	bigkas
recommend	rekomenda
undergo	sailalim
pigeon pea	kadyos
privilege	pribilehiyo
initiative	inisyatibo
joining	anib
guidance	patnubay
temptation	tukso
Boac	Marinduque
judiciary	hudikatura
shuffle	balasa
discuss	talakay
discussion	talakayan
drown	lunod
convince	kumbinsi
its	nito
nearby	karatig
though	bagamat
overthrow	patalsik
act	dukot
roar	ungol
first of all	una sa lahat
Bicol Peninsula	Sorsogon
consent	kunsinti
gnaw	ngatngat
kill	kumitil ng buhay
attention	asikaso
save	maghigpit ng sinturon
slay	paslang
dip	sawsaw
dip	sawsawan
native sun hat	salakot
garrote	Gomburza
slaughterhouse	katayan
piggery	babuyan
researcher	tagapagsaliksik
sugarcane plantation	tubuhan
deceive	linlang
provide	tustos
banging	lagabag
chapter	kabanata
postpone	paliban
management	pamunuan
set aside	santabi
unity	pagkakaisa
market	pamilihan
when	pag-
call of nature	tawag ng kalikasan
subtract	magbawas
lice comb	suyod
loose change	barya
cheater	manloloko
eleventh	ikalabing-isa
Holy Wednesday	Miyerkules Santo
third	ikatlo
prawn	sugpo
cause	humaling
remedy	remedyo
custom	bulingbuling
whipping	hagupit
Pampanga	San Fernando
scrubbing	hilod
orange jessamine	kamuning
damson plum	kalumpit
achiote	atsuwete
fruit	anonang
person	amugis
first aid	paunang lunas
repack	repake
deadline	palugit
accept	tanggap
pick	sungkit
understand	unawa
hammer	pukpok
pelican	pagala
egret	talabong
hotdog	hatdog
sound	tugtog
temporary	pansamantala
apple juice	katas ng mansanas
grape juice	katas ng ubas
theft	pagnanakaw
bad medicine	masamang gamot
expression	ekspresyon
archbishop	arsobispo
flay	lapnos
scald	banli
scald	banlian
legitimate	lehitimo
memorize	saulo
attempt	subok
implication	dawit
forced	sapilitan
good	maamong tupa
condominium	kondominyum
bulge	umbok
gargle	mumog
glass shard	bubog
private parts	maselang bahagi
public prosecutor	piskalya
sneeze	hatsing
superintendent	tagapamahala
small shrimp	alamang
ramming	bundol
pick one's nose	mangulangot
bothersome	hasel
muscle	masel
in the act	huli sa akto
taste	panlasa
inappropriate	wala sa lugar
grated	gadgad
washing	hinaw
truth	katotohanan
union	unyon
caulk	masilya
impoverished	kapos-palad
submerge	lublob
use	balsahan
hightail	karipas
attention-seeker	papansin
snippet	retaso
refusing	hugas-kamay
damage	danyos
social studies	araling panlipunan
murderer	mamamatay-tao
smuggler	ismagler
rape	panghahalay
ambush	pananambang
bribery	panunuhol
robbery	panloloob
piracy	pamimirata
revving up	harurot
mourning	pagluluksa
agony	paghihingalo
bird droppings	ipot
care	pangangalaga
regret	panghihinayang
trustee	katiwala
hesitate	magdalawang-isip
secondhand	segunda mano
toothbrush	sipilyo
tear	poknat
hesitant	atubili
just kidding	charot
shop window	eskaparate
twin	kakambal
hesitation	pag-aatubili
empty container	basyo
street child	batang kalye
sharp-pointed	matilos
principle	simulain
supreme court	mataas na hukuman
General Emilio Aguinaldo	Bailen
look	manalamin
little finger	hinliliit
author	may-akda
public school	pampublikong paaralan
private school	pampribadong paaralan
elementary school	mababang paaralan
at last	sa wakas
Metro Manila	Kalakhang Maynila
battery	baterya
carburetor	karburador
close look	masid
God	Bathala
den	kubil
legume	kamatsile
safflower	kasubha
Indigofera hirsuta	tayuman
calabur tree	aratilis
barbershop	pagupitan
sensitive plant	makahiya
bath	paliguan
public holiday	pista opisyal
sole	suwelas
project	proyekto
prevail	mangibabaw
carat	kilates
railway station	estasyon
make yellow	dilawan
burned out	pundido
shadow	anino
Cavite	Trece Martires
Cavite	Imus
Cavite	General Trias
refer	sangguni
amateur	bagito
Agusan	Bukidnon
innocent	inosente
messenger	mensahero
rainforest trees	lawaan
roadside	tabing-kalsada
enclitic	ingklitik
viaticum	biyatiko
prostrate	handusay
outrageous	garapal
steal	malikot ang kamay
frisky	malikot
unlucky	sinamang-palad
Camarines Sur	Del Gallego
Cavite	Ternate
fascism	pasismo
fascist	pasista
act	kutkot
based	batay
elder sister	atsi
wildness	ilap
budget	badyet
gelatin	gulaman
round	batya
soft	lamog
three day	kamakatlo
four day	kamakapat
five day	kamakalima
flesh and blood	dugo't laman
Quezon	Guinayangan
vineyard	ubasan
implication	damay
abuse	pagsamantalahan
go through	dumaan sa butas ng karayom
mouth shut	tikom ang bibig
shut	tikom
firebrand	dupong
province	Davao
Portunus pelagicus	alimasag
toy gun	baril-barilan
fiction	kathang-isip
lap	sinapupunan
viviparous	luwal
ankle	bukong-bukong
diminutive	-oy
affordable	magaan sa bulsa
appellation	diko
appellation	sitse
alias	alyas
restlessly moving	galawgaw
materialism	materyalismo
publish	lathala
scanty	kakarampot
blood, sweat and tears	dugo at pawis
poverty	kahirapan
publisher	tagapaglathala
hegemony	gahum
echo	alingawngaw
hold a grudge	magkimkim ng galit
objecting	tutol
snatching	hablot
sophisticated	sopistikado
chop	sibak
facility	pasilidad
beating	bugbog
support	katigan
length	dipa
hand	dampot
suffix	hulapi
townspeople	taumbayan
clay pot	palayok
we	kmi
marijuana	tsongki
ductility	kunat
talkativeness	tabil
sulk	mukmok
poke	sundot
illegible	kinahig ng manok
obedient	masunurin
hook	kalawit
abortifacient	pampalaglag
wedding gown	trahe de boda
daily	araw-araw
hurt	pagbuhatan ng kamay
old woman	matandang dalaga
fresh lumpia	lumpiang sariwa
woodland	kahuyan
outer space	kalawakan
root	salitang ugat
Quezon	Tayabas
piercing	matinis
interferes	pakialamero
hungry	tomguts
untidy	gusgusin
sunny	umaraw
create	lumikha
whole	buo
form	bumuo
form	buuin
creative	malikhain
misfortune	lugami
hairy	mabalahibo
sudden	biglaan
friendly	palakaibigan
omission	laktaw
known	kilala
well-hung	dakota
old-time card game	pangginggi
player	manlalaro
discount	tawad
quack	tawak
Lantana camara	kantutay
pepper	siling labuyo
yardlong bean	sitaw
white popinac	ipil-ipil
carbonate	sagilap
nonsense	sagimuymoy
dipterocarp	tangile
cashew	balubad
bilimbi	kamyas
beggarticks	nguad
mallow	lapnis
molave	mulawin
cattleya	katleya
guijo	giho
vermillion	bulaw
handspan	dangkal
silver perch	ayungin
as if there were no tomorrow	parang wala nang bukas
cobra	ulupong
ring reinforcement	balakat
night mist	masirino
headache	sakit sa ulo
roasting	letson
noodle	pancit
wrestling	buno
support	tukod
rival	karibal
hung	jutay
gardener	hardinero
female gardener	hardinera
garden	hardin
cellophane noodles	sotanghon
typewriter	makinilya
composer	kompositor
handsome	pogi
neglect	pabayaan
run	tumakbo
easily run	hingalin
kick	sipain
turn around	umikot
abandon	iwanan
punch	suntukin
obtain	makuha
receive	matanggap
understand	maintindihan
cook	tagaluto
clean	linisan
return	isauli
throw	ihagis
dizzy	mahilo
call	tawagan
punch	magsuntukan
read	basahin
place	kainan
eat	makain
eat	makikain
clean	maglinis
send	ipadala
carried around	dala-dala
fucker	kantutero
sexual intercourse	magkantutan
sexual intercourse	makipagkantutan
have sexual intercourse	kantutin
engage	makantot
visit	bisitahin
insert	ipasok
palabasin	papasukin
penetrate	mapasok
shit	taihan
defecate	matae
happy	pasayahin
happy	magpasaya
sexual intercourse	pakantutin
arrogant	mapagmalaki
paliitin	palakihin
noisy	umingay
silence	katahimikan
become quiet	tumahimik
shut up	manahimik
reply	sumagot
ask	pasagutan
ask	ipasagot
see	makita
think	isipin
look	tingnan
look for	hanapin
attach	ilagay
remove	alisin
sack	paalisin
erase	burahin
condition	pakiramdam
ask	magtanong
ask	tanungin
show	ipakita
appear	magpakita
start	magsimula
end	matapos
end	tapusin
write	isulat
write	sulatan
future	kinabukasan
dance	sumayaw
sing	kumanta
pay	bayaran
able	mabayaran
hear	marinig
leave	hayaan
dance	magsayaw
dance	sayawin
dancer	mananayaw
sing	kantahan
sing	makipagkantahan
sing	kantahin
sing	magkantahan
listen	makinig
down-to-earth	mapagkumbaba
underestimate	maliitin
lumaki	lumiit
bigger	lumaki
explode	pumutok
eruption	pagputok
explode	putukin
liar	echosera
become handsome	gumuwapo
become beautiful	gumanda
gumuwapo	pumangit
disturb	abalahin
go out of one's way	mag-abala
fight	awayin
fight	mag-away
fight	warlahin
agree	sumangayon
start	umpisahan
beginning	umpisa
begin	mag-umpisa
come to an end	magtapos
graduation	pagtatapos
spend money	gumastos
save	ipunin
save	mag-ipon
save	isalba
help	tulungan
create	gawin
do	gawan
charity	kawang gawa
unintentionally	maka-
sell	ibenta
goods	paninda
cover	takpan
protect	protektahan
protect	protekta
protected	protektado
protection	proteksyon
sharpen	tasahan
hope	asahan
touch	galawin
make	kapalan
make	pakapalin
become thicker	kumapal
become thinner	numipis
make	panipisin
come off	matanggal
remove	tanggalin
attach	ikabit
hurry	bilisan
slow up	bagalan
speed up	pabilisin
pabilisin	pabagalin
slow down	bumagal
behave well	umayos
disorderly	gumulo
scatter	guluhin
give medical treatment	gamutin
rectum	tumbong
write	magsulat
pen	panulat
beauty	kagandahan
ugliness	kapangitan
best friend	matalik na kaibigan
best friend	beshie
angry	kagalit
make	galitin
angry	magalit
velocity	belosidad
rain	umulan
wet	maulanan
drizzle	umambon
have	bumagyo
hit	bagyuhin
fever	lagnatin
group	samahan
together with	kasama
bring along	isama
research	magsaliksik
realize	mapansin
talk	pansinin
attention	pansin
World War II	Ikalawang Digmaang Pandaigdig
go	magpunta
go	puntahan
break down	masira
destroy	sirain
broken	mabasag
break	basagin
fractured	mabali
be destroyed	mawasak
destroy	wasakin
work	umandar
turn on	paandarin
pun	paandar
pay attention	intindihin
comprehension	pang-intindi
adviser	tagapayo
cleaner	tagalinis
clean	linisin
litter	magkalat
messy	makalat
dirty	madumi
diffuse	ikalat
expenses	bayarin
pay	magbayard
bribe	maglagay
Christianity	Kristiyanismo
put	lagyan
member	kabarkada
peer	katropa
group	dabarkads
peer	tropatuts
peer	tsong
Catholic	Katoliko
negotiation	negosasyon
consumer	konsyumer
adventure	pakikipagsapalaran
admiration	paghanga
fan	tagahanga
genius	henyo
anxiety	pagkabalisa
put on airs	magmaganda
belief	paniniwala
believe	maniwala
trust	tiwala
childhood	pagkabata
communication	komunikasyon
curiosity	kuryusidad
enthusiasm	entusyasmo
failure	pagkabigo
disappointed	bigo
fail	mabigo
let down	biguin
visit	bumisita
rush	pagmamadali
World War I	Unang Digmaang Pandaigdig
reconcile	makipagbati
fornicate	makipagtalik
converse	makipag-usap
talk	kausapin
talk	mag-usap
makipag-	pakikipag-
plead	paki-usapan
request	paki-usap
beg	maki-usap
agreement	usapan
friendship	pagkakaibigan
fight	makipag-away
makipag-away	pakikipag-away
chat	makipagchat
makipagchat	pakikipagchat
chatmate	kachat
engaged	magkaaway
allophony	pa- -in
feed	pakainin
answer	-sagutan
penetrate	pasukin
buy from	bilhan
buy	bilhin
state	kapalutan
get sick	magkasakit
manner	pagkaka-
sickly	sakitin
hurt	sumakit
recover	gumaling
cure	pagalingin
return	ibalik
return	pagbabalik
allophony	pa- -an
forty	kuwarenta
eighty	otsenta
revenge	higanti
revenge	paghigantihan
interference	himasok
meddle	manghimasok
meddle	panghimasukan
pick	manguha
get	kumuha
obey	tumalima
massage	magmasahe
roll	gumulong
reject	tumanggi
play	tumugtog
play	tugtugin
understand	ipaintindi
teacher	titser
tattered rag	basanlot
wear tattered clothes	magbasanlot
opponent	kabasangal
crozier	bakulo
iron fist	kamay na bakal
proud	palalo
pride	kapalaluan
thirteen	trese
fourteen	katorse
tastiness	sarap
large bell	batingaw
information	kabatiran
stupid	banday
stupidity	kabandayan
use armor	magbaluti
profound	baliwag
profundity	kabaliwagan
spilling	salawak
seventeen	disisiyete
eighteen	disiotso
nineteen	disinuwebe
jacket	dyaket
brave	suong
insurgency	insurhensiya
harpoon	salapang
superficial	salapaw
harpoon	sumalapang
comparison	hambing
subversive	subersibo
run	takbo
someone	takbuhin
brave	sumuong
logic	lohika
industrialization	industriyalisasyon
competition	kumpetisyon
oppose	manlaban
implicate	isangkot
work	magbukid
publish	maglathala
salivate	maglaway
sit	maglupagi
gargle	magmumog
comb	magsuklay
heroism	kabayanihan
feeling	kaawaan
sourness	kaasiman
member	kaanib
concubine	kaagulo
thug	butangero
coachman	kutsero
create smoke	magpausok
alcoholic drink	agwardiyente
walking arm-in-arm	abrasete
legal profession	abogasya
homeless pauper	abukanin
masterpiece	akdang-guro
obstruct	humadlang
become rancid	umanta
sign of the cross	antanda
sangkatlo	kalahati
seventy	sitenta
sixty	sisenta
one hundred	sandaan
hundred thousand	siyento mil
hundred thousand	daang libo
Quezon City	Kyusi
ten thousand	sampung libo
hundred thousand	sampung laksa
customer	kustomer
comparative	pahambing
superlative	pasukdol
personal pronoun	panghalip na panao
sociology	sosyolohiya
weave	maghabi
wheeze	umagahas
contribute	mag-abuloy
mistreat	abain
fan	mag-abaniko
kidney bean	abitsuwelas
notify	abisuhan
mechanical trouble	aberya
wait	mag-abang
escort	umabay
twenty-one	beynte uno
twenty-seven	beynte siyete
twenty-two	beynte dos
thirty-one	tatlumpu't isa
thirty-two	tatlumpu't dalawa
thirty-three	tatlumpu't tatlo
sprout	umusbong
prove	magpatunay
activity	aktibidades
insert	isuksok
winter	tag-
batchoy	batsoy
composition	komposisyon
regime	rehimen
collective	kolektibo
ownership	pagmamay-ari
awareness	kamalayan
twenty-three	beynte tres
twenty-four	beynte kuwatro
revise	irebisa
twenty-five	beynte singko
confidential	kumpidensyal
win	pakainin ng alikabok
foul-mouthed	palamura
twenty-six	beynte sais
twenty-eight	beynte otso
Visayas	Kabisayaan
Eve	Eba
Tagalog homeland	Katagalugan
broadcast	brodkast
Metro Manila	Kamaynilaan
twenty-nine	beynte nuwebe
owner	may-ari
official	opisyal
official	opisyales
traveler	biyahero
examiner	eksaminador
logger	magkakahoy
hunter	mangangaso
voluntary	boluntaryo
registration	rehistro
ordeal	kalbaryo
dialect	dayalekto
wander around	magliwaliw
disprove	pabulaanan
mystery	misteryo
Vertucio	Virtucio
opium	opyo
amend	amyendahan
amendment	amyenda
treat	balewalain
worthless	balewala
counsel	konseho
councilor	konsehala
forty-five	kwarenta y singko
thirty-eight	treynta y otso
one thousand	sanlibo
simulation	simulasyon
mysterious	misteryoso
quality	kalidad
quality	de-kalidad
script	iskrip
serve	magsilbi
use	silbi
food	tsibog
eat	tsumibog
straw	bansi
provocation	udyok
smoker	naninigarilyo
license	lisensiya
illusion	ilusyon
sign	lagdaan
addict	malulong
vice	lulong
crave	matakam
sign	pirmahan
swindling	panggagantso
downward	pailalim
clothing	pananamit
use	pambahay
handkerchief	panyo
crochet	maggantsilyo
treacherous	pataksil
handkerchief	panwelo
secret	palihim
appreciation	apresasyon
compensation	kumpensasyon
recommend	magrekomenda
review	rebyu
review	rebyuhin
autonomy	awtonomiya
long-term	pangmatagalan
right-hand man	kanang kamay
increase	umento
accumulation	akumulasyon
distribution	distribusyon
foundation	pundasyon
distribution	pamamahagi
deportation	deportasyon
defective	depektibo
complicated	kumplikado
perspective	perspektibo
second	segundahan
look	sipatin
potholed	lubak-lubak
complication	kasalimuutan
classmate	kaklase
schoolgirl	kolehiyala
schoolmate	kaeskuwela
deaf-mute	pipi at bingi
translator	tagapagsalin
does	tagapag-
ika-	pang-
allophony	ka- -an
tension	tensyon
tense	tensyonado
hit	kulatain
get drunk	maglasing
pressure	presyon
rub	kuskos
remove	kuskusin
railing	luhuran
mountain ridge	tagaytay
fruit	bungangkahoy
life story	kuwentong buhay
alcohol	paglalasing
bagtikan	malaanonang
stamp	magdabog
foster child	anak-anakan
to each his own	kanya-kanya
cost	kanya-kanyang bayad
his	kaniya
meow	ngiyaw
private	niig
make a scene	gumawa ng eksena
stool	bangkito
small table	lamesita
arrangement	areglo
rape	panggagahasa
defamation	paninirang-puri
bitter melon	apalya
in case	baka sakali
take a chance	magbakasakali
alley	kalyehon
identity	pagkakakilanlan
beg	manlimos
begging	panlilimos
agent	simuno
initiator	pasimuno
dairy farm	pagatasan
take advantage	manamantala
manamantala	pananamantala
zarzuela	sarswela
vaudeville	bodabil
importance	kahalagahan
dog	tsotso
slight	bahagya
Song of Solomon	Awit ni Solomon
phlegm	pagdahak
1 Kings	1 Mga Hari
2 Kings	2 Mga Hari
lesbian	lesbyana
young male homosexual	baklita
verdict	hatol
periodical	peryodikal
Irish	Irlandes
nutrient	sustansya
eradicate	sawatain
confiscate	samsamin
of course	siyempre
nutritious	masustansya
sure	sigurado
leery	sigurista
deluge	dilubyo
fond	magakgak
chilblain	sabanyon
pneumonia	pulmonya
held	kimkim
show humility	magpakumbaba
honeybee	pukyutan
swoop down	dumagit
smaller	ligwan
bee	lukutan
soften dough	lamasin
extended family	kamag-anakan
keep	magkumot
keep	kumutan
bless	basbasan
carabao	damulag
huge animal	dambuhala
stay awake	magpuyat
raise	magbusisi
Kaffir lime	kabuyaw
shiver	mangaligkig
limitation	limitasyon
lithography	litograpiya
naughty	haligutgot
mussel	halaan
original sin	salang orihinal
holy water	agwa bendita
foster mother	nanay-nanayan
foster father	tatay-tatayan
Messiah	Tagapagligtas
gentleman	ginoo
safe	ligtas
subprovince	Apayao
subprovince	Benguet
large hoe	asarol
dramatic	pandula
fright	dulit
end	duluhan
help	saklolo
trade	komersyo
coworker	katrabaho
announce	mag-anunsyo
hurry	mag-apura
rent	mag-arkila
threaten	magbanta
apology	paumanhin
apologize	humingi ng paumanhin
odd number	gansal
lone object	gangsal
drain	bambang
chicken coop	batulang
seraph	serapin
female carabao	palisan
grin	ngumisi
relinquish	magpaubaya
thud	lagabog
dive	sumisid
diving	sisid
convinced	kumbinsido
patient	pasensyoso
very	masyado
complete aspect	naganap
progressive aspect	nagaganap
contemplative aspect	magaganap
Gloria	Papuri sa Diyos
crown of thorns	koronang tinik
sadness	kalungkutan
cheating	dagdag-bawas
addictive	nakakaadik
alcoholic	nakalalasing
preposition	pang-ukol
according to	ayon sa
according to	ayon kay
about	tungkol sa
calculate	magkuwenta
rent	magrenta
space	espasyo
many	sangkaterba
vowel	patinig
because of	dahil sa
except for	maliban sa
against	laban sa
punch	jumbag
revenge	resbak
pay back	rumesbak
many	sangkatutak
more	higit
implement	magpatupad
main	pangunahin
promise	mangako
start	mag-aklas
exact	sakto
broadcaster	brodkaster
visit	dumalaw
get	maghagilap
opponent	katunggali
tight fence	kubakob
sound	hagibis
cry aloud	humagulhol
successor	kahalili
brook	saluysoy
overflow	lumigwak
speak meekly	umimik
knowledge	muwang
commander	patnugot
release	alingasaw
anyone	alinman
fair	karampatan
guest	panauhin
benefit	pakinabang
kiss	hagkan
innocent	walang sala
foreword	paunang salita
summer	tag-araw
accustomed	mamihasa
drunken rage	masugapa
wounded	masuwag
separate	tumiwalag
drunken rage	sugapa
article	pantukoy
demolition	paggiba
splatter	magpatalsik
demolish	maggiba
scold	singhal
burning	pagsusunog
shooting	pamamaril
fall	malaglag
solicit payment	maningil
base	pagbasehan
tumble	tumambling
restless	aligaga
predict	manghula
water	magdilig
flatter	mambola
bore holes	magbutas
wiggle	kumislot
rise	bumalikwas
reddish kind	angkak
rice mill	bigasan
vote	bumoto
take	mangamkam
fodder	kumpay
propose	mamanhikan
wedding	pamamanhikan
depart	pumanaw
lose	mamatayan
ignorance	kamangmangan
give	bigyan
amnesty	amnestiya
make	maghangad
next	susunod
forever	magpakailanman
how much	magkano
nightly	gabi-gabi
hourly	oras-oras
each	bawat
parboil shrimp	maghalabos
necessary	kailangan
need	pangangailangan
remove	mapuknat
hit	batikusin
oar	magsagwan
oar	sagwan
drown	malunod
godchild	inaanak
say no	umiling
discipline	disiplinahin
transport back and forth	ihatid-sundo
frequently brought	hatid-sundo
accompaniment	hatid
deliver	maghatid
boss around	maghari-harian
false king	hari-harian
nonbiodegradable	di-nabubulok
irresponsible	alibugha
swirling water	alimpuyo
ancient pagan god	Amansinaya
wait	umantabay
carpenter	anluwagi
light	mapusyaw
black mangrove	pututan
lonely	nag-iisa
painting	pagpipinta
painting	pagpipintura
knot	sigalot
pearl millet	agingay
invite	mag-anyaya
atmospheric space	himpapawid
godfather	inaama
godmother	iniina
bury	maglibing
indeed	ngani
mediate	mamagitan
seed	panag-araw
faith	pananampalataya
pursue	tumugis
ancestor	kanunu-nunuan
commit adultery	mangalunya
horizontal	pahalang
deserted	nakakailang
sacrum	kuyukot
brassiere	salungso
panty	salungki
chair	salumpuwit
underwear	kasuotang panloob
use inside	panloob
rhinoceros	rinoseronte
raccoon	mapatse
Southern Tagalog	Timog Katagalugan
Central Luzon	Gitnang Luzon
blown up	lislis
rinse	banlaw
scare	takutin
supporter	tagasuporta
hostility	pagkakasiraan
difference of opinion	pagkakaiba ng palagay
boo	bulaga
century	dantaon
demolished	buwag
Adam's apple	gulunggulungan
garlic chive	kutsay
celebrate victory	magtagumpay
ill	magdiwang
keep	manariwa
scapular	kalmen
scapular	eskapularyo
asylum	kalingaan
venture	makipagsapalaran
screw pine	sabutan
slave	sabwat
goose bump	kilabutan
unending	walang humpay
cessation	humpay
racket	alingasngas
monkey	tsonggo
old bachelor	matandang binata
adolescent boy	binatilyo
watch	tanaw
watchtower	tanawan
twist	matapilok
row	taludtod
opposite	kasalungat
hat	sambalilo
flash	kumidlat
thunder	kumulog
make	magkunwari
pursue	usigin
great-great-grandchild	apo sa talampakan
great-great-great-grandchild	apo sa sakong
large	bakulaw
boycott	iboykot
dilute	bantuan
dowry	bigay-kaya
hardly	bihira
fish	mamingwit
business partner	kasosyo
small fishhook	bingwit
mocking	palabiro
loose	buhaghag
kababaan	kababaang-loob
nobility	kaginoohan
lust	kalibugan
forget	kalimutan
shelter	magkanlong
species	kanumay
ancestry	kanunuan
piece	piraso
grab suddenly	dakutin
poverty	dalita
disgust	pandidiri
disgusted	diring-diri
reach out	dukwangin
wisdom	dunong
harvest	maggapas
reaper	manggagapas
get ready	gumayak
cry aloud	humagulgol
sudden	hagulgol
similarize	ihalintulad
search	mag-apuhap
long ago	sa una
defend	isanggalang
defend	sanggalang
scold	sawayin
meet	sumalisi
rod	salawag
confused	urong-sulong
cause	mausog
abundant	sagana
hiss	sumagitsit
hiss	sagitsit
aground	sumagadsad
twice	makalawa
three times	makatatlo
till	hanggang sa muli
exterminate	lumipol
penetrate	tumalab
pretend	magpanggap
one day	balang araw
shy	mahiyain
razor	pang-ahit
companion	kasa-kasama
other side	kabilang dako
defeat	kabiguan
act	kumahog
frontal box	bigwas
go	pumaroon
drinking	pag-inom
writing	pagsusulat
sky	papawirin
one-handed	kimaw
order	mag-utos
disappear	mawala
because	palibhasa
say	wikain
according to him	aniya
hang	lumambitin
crackling	lagitik
mount	sumakay
boyfriend	kasintahan
love	suminta
slander	mamura
imprisoned	kulong
slander	murahin
freeze	magyelo
damnation	malintikan
anxiety	kabagabagan
black	mangitim
carry	magpasan
proud	ipagmalaki
flower	mamulaklak
give	mamigay
turn pale	mamutla
don	magsuot
mock	manlibak
buy	mamili
share	mamahagi
make a living	mamuhay
hunt	mangaso
feel	makaramdam
ask	magpasulat
ask	magpagawa
borrow money	magpautang
fit	magkasiya
fits	kasiya
owe	magkautang
pick reusable	mamasura
pack	mag-empake
pretend	magtulug-tulugan
repack	magrepake
charming quality	gayuma
enchant	gayumahin
affection	maglampungan
grab	pumulupot
grab	pulupot
hurry	magkumahog
tremble	mangisay
weigh up	tantiyahin
estimate	tantiya
clear	tabtabin
damned	tinamaan ng lintik
live	magsarili
schedule	mag-iskedyul
happen	magkataon
linguistics	lingguwistika
panic attack	nerbiyos
biscuit	biskuwit
squatter	iskuwater
birthday	bertdey
interview	interbiyu
annoyed	konsumido
rallyist	raliyista
sexual	seksuwal
sexuality	seksuwalidad
noodle	pansit
burial ground	puntod
appeal	manawagan
thick	arnibal
appoint	maghalal
zeal	mamanata
stay	manatili
burn	magningas
shine	magningning
move	mangibang-bayan
but	ngunit
noise	ugong
appeal	pananawagan
carol	mangaroling
let	mapahamak
dream	managinip
dream	panaginip
assemblyman	asambleista
pride	orgulyo
apply	sagkaan
drop	maghulog
forgetful	makakalimutin
flatulent	ututin
fear	mangamba
downward	pababa
cause trouble	manggulo
children	pambata
pamamaril	pam-
forget	makalimot
Nile cabbage	kiyapo
strike	magwelga
break up	umawat
rotating savings	paluwagan
adults	pangmatanda
malice	malisya
feigning ignorance	patay malisya
feign	dedma
act	suntok sa buwan
bean curd vendor	magtataho
restaurant	pansiterya
inquire	usisain
inquire	usisa
hand fan	pamaypay
visitation	pagdalaw
prayer	panalangin
compassion	kahabagan
entrust	maghabilin
Capuchin	Kaputsino
exchange	kapalit
abdomen	puson
homily	homiliya
operate	mamasada
longitude	longhitud
estate	mansiyon
mercenary	mersenaryo
missionary	misyonero
monastery	monasteryo
furniture	muwebles
novena	nobenaryo
print	mag-imprenta
primitive	sinauna
old-fashioned	makaluma
literacy	literasiya
age	kapanahunan
practice	magpraktis
Philippines	Pangasinense
goodness	kagalingan
propagate	magpalaganap
participate	makibahagi
Manileño	Manilenyo
speak	mag-Ingles
Indian	Indiyano
Portuguese	Portuges
Belgian	Belhiko
coconut	kaniyugan
eye	nakamulaga
jackfruit plantation	langkaan
Katipunan	Katipunero
revolutionary secret organization	Katipunan
adolesce	magbinata
adolesce	magdalaga
auction	magpasubasta
warrior	mandirigma
depth	kalaliman
residence	Malakanyang
window	dungaw
guerrilla warfare	gerilya
civil guard	guwardiya sibil
blood compact	sanduguan
splendor	dingal
property tax	amilyar
ruling class	maginoo
creating deity	Maylikha
provincial governor	alkalde mayor
monopolization	monopolisasyon
water supply	Nawasa
cronyism	kroniyismo
embalm	mag-embalsamo
stone	pader
lye	lihiya
bolt	kunsi
cha-cha	tsatsa
travel	bumiyahe
cancellation	kanselasyon
prophecy	propesiya
copyright	karapatang may-ari
agaw	agaw-pansin
buyer	mamimili
unionist	unyonista
coffee plantation	kapihan
limping	iika-ika
cassock	sutana
preparedness	kahandaan
lost	pinulot sa kangkungan
water spinach plantation	kangkungan
stupid	pendeho
pregnancy	pagbubuntis
heir	tagapagmana
tailor	patahian
acrophobia	nakakalula
make fun of	pagtripan
enemy	kalaban
whose	kanino
receipt	resibo
valuable	mahalaga
sculptor	manilililok
rather	medyo
Mercury	Merkuryo
Messiah	Mesiyas
very young	musmos
fierce fighting	muok
complete	ganap
sawmill	trosohan
envious	inggitero
bribe	manuhol
retarded	may sayad
think	praning
poke something	dutdutin
hickey	tsikinini
smallpox	bulutong
mockery	aglahi
cry	ngalngal
jueteng	huweteng
gambler	manunugal
tambiolo	tambiyolo
collect payment	kubra
car	tsikot
fencing	espadahan
teaser	alaskador
carol	mamasko
peep	mamboso
shy	walang dila
cowardly	walang bayag
request	hingi
death pang	hingalo
nephew	pamangkin
beggar	pulubi
gap	puwang
reference	sanggunian
small cushion	almohadilya
oxygen	oksiheno
itchy	makati
act	bunto
national	pambansa
peaceful	mapayapa
monied	mapilak
phlegmy	maplema
red	mapula
having	mapunla
covered	mapuno
thin	marak
having	masabaw
very abundant	masaksa
with	masaksi
comprehensive	masaklaw
full	masakuna
slow	masagal
full	masagwil
massage parlor	masahihan
monied	masalapi
aromatic	masamyo
having	masangsang
having	masangay
full	masapot
fond	masatsat
full	masasakyan
loud	masigabo
shiny	masikat
diligent	masikap
healthy	masibol
full	masigalot
passionate	masilakbo
thrifty	masimpan
affectionate	masuyo
full	masurot
very careful	masusi
nutritious	masustansiya
lucky	masuwerte
trademark	tatak-kalakal
fingerprint	tatak-daliri
bargaining	tawaran
small temporary shrine	tuklong
stupidity	kaungasan
medium	talyasi
secretive	malihim
well	malibro
lustful	malibog
pampered	malayaw
full	malatak
full	malanggam
coquettish	malantod
full	malangaw
membranous	malamad
full	malalin
full	malamat
black	maitim
trench	trintsera
fall	sumemplang
warning	babala
wave	alon
flannel	pranela
swing	kumuyakoy
hair	tutsang
grief	dalamhati
opium	apyan
opium	opyum
watercolour	akwarela
tuner	talapihitan
carbide	kalburo
cross-tie	trabyesa
mileage	milyahe
triangle	labintador
urban area	kalungsuran
wow	hanep
All Saints' Day	Undas
cell phone	selular
puzzle	palaisipan
happiness	kaligayahan
right away	kaagad
character	pakitang-tao
insincerity	kaplastikan
pesticide	pestisidyo
oriole	kulyawan
formed	binundok
frequency	dalas
decametre	dekametro
biretta	bireta
hectometre	hektometro
illegal cockfight	tupada
magic	salamangka
profanity	tungayaw
winged bean	sigarilyas
winter melon	kundol
tailless	unggi
tailless	punggi
cut off	pungog
ohm	omyo
realistic	makatotohanan
shabby	nanlilimahid
in reality	sa katunayan
loathsome	karumal-dumal
bruise	limahid
drought	tagtuyot
chasuble	kasulya
needlefish	susuwi
gotcha	huli ka
abominable	kasuklam-suklam
gain awareness	matauhan
smug	kampante
lack	kakulangan
assurance	kasiguraduhan
make sure	siguraduhin
suspicious	kahina-hinala
suspect	maghinala
suspected	pinaghihinalaan
steal	nakawin
plaster	palitada
cover	palitadahan
drill	magbarena
crazy	sira ang tuktok
coriander	wansoy
epithet	Mama Mary
eat lunch	mananghalian
immunity	resistensya
His Eminence	Kanyang Kabunyian
wash	sabunin
gluttony	katakawan
pride	karangalan
masturbation	dikdik-bawang
officemate	kaopisina
website	pahinarya
cell phone	selepono
genetics	henetika
nitrogen	nitroheno
chewing gum	tsiklet
faint	himatayin
play truant	magbulakbol
laundry	labada
last	kabuwanan
alarming	nakakaalarma
frightening	nakakatakot
deafening	nakakabingi
stupefying	nakakaloko
prudishness	selan
worn out	laspag
annoying	nakakabuwisit
evil	maitim ang budhi
flowery	mabulaklak
stonehearted	matigas ang puso
divulge	magsiwalat
dubious	kaduda-duda
turn a blind eye	magbulag-bulagan
shrubby	masukal
become easy	dumali
dalmatic	dalmatika
taffy	balikutsa
throw	itsa
act	pagsagot
surety	panagot
flat fall	sagpak
small hut	sagubang
floor	magsahig
tell	magkuwento
flicker	kutitap
complexion	kutis
gas stove	kusinilya
square	kuwadrado
armor	kutamaya
slow	kutiltil
quarantine	kuwarentenas
quartet	kuwarteto
barracks	kuwartel
money	kuwarta
so-and-so	kuwan
idle talk	kutsukutso
tobacco pipe	kuwako
stable	kuwadra
kind	kuwaho
jute sack	kustal
call	kurukya
belly	kayuyo
protrusion	kayuyuan
chicken	kekok
closed	kayumkom
perhaps	kaypala
cricket	kerwe
leprosarium	ketungan
leper	ketungin
sway	kembot
invitation	kayag
wealth	kayamanan
spool	kidkid
Philippine	kikyam
reddish earthen pan	kamaw
youth	kakilawan
carried	kilik
affected gait	kinday
balustrade	kinsikinsi
shiny	makintab
bamboo guitar	kudlong
source	kukunan
head wrap	kulubong
Vietnam	Biyetnam
Ukraine	Ukranya
East Timor	Silangang Timor
Morocco	Marwekos
Thailand	Taylandiya
Macedonia	Masedonya
dapple gray color	kulakling
dark	kulimlim
questionnaire	palatanungan
Ark of the Covenant	Kaban ng Tipan
leavening agent	lebadura
gravitational force	hilabigat
biodiversity	saribuhay
metamorphosis	banyuhay
Far East, East Asia	Malayong Silangan
epistemology	epistemolohiya
meticulous	mabusisi
infested	mabuwaya
bony	mabuto
chubby	maburok
laden	mabunga
vociferous	mabunganga
full	mabulbol
robust	mabulas
foamy	mabula
knotty	mabuhol
hairy	mabuhok
sandy	mabuhangin
inflated	mabintog
infested	mabalang
full	mabalakubak
with	mabalakid
footprint	mabakas
pleasant	maaya
bitterish	maaskad
smoky	maasap
full	maaral
smell	maango
moldy	maamag
smelly	maalingasaw
thoughtful	maalintana
charming	maalindog
cloudy	maulap
cloudy	maalapaap
full	maagiw
jewelry	maalahas
infested	maahas
busy	maabyad
ashy	maabo
book	maaklat
ambitious	maadhika
thoughtful	maalaala
shaky	maalog
overactive	maharos
slender	mahawas
animal	mahayop
miraculous	mahimala
calm	mahinahon
suspicious	mahinala
gentle	mahinhin
pedantry	pamimilosopo
callus	kalyo
horse-drawn carriage	karitela
Catholicism	Katolisismo
epidemic	epidemya
sarcasm	pang-uuyam
wedge	kalso
tyranny	tiraniya
antiphon	antipona
wick	mitsa
buhay	mitsa ng buhay
decision	pasiya
dysentery	disenteriya
egoistic	makaako
dropper	pamatak
whisk	pambati
permanent	pamalagian
special	espesyal
applause	palakpakan
suitable	angkop
selfish	maikot
sin	kasalanan
gender	kasarian
festivity	kasayahan
sniff	singhot
fumes	singaw
exact	singkad
belt	sinturon
deflected	sinsay
entirely consumed	simot
very small boy	tsikiting
tightness	sikip
woe is me	sa aba ko
woe	sa aba mo
dried leaf	salab
obstacle	salabid
basket	salakab
gold beetle	salaginto
file	salansan
act	tawid
range	taway
choice dish	putahe
nausea	alibadbad
contact	kontak
vapor	alimuom
cage	hawla
purpose	hinggil
MSG	betsin
cook food	magkusi
spoon	makutsara
spoon	magkutsara
ladle	magkutsaron
ladle	magsandok
just because	porke
sphere	timbulog
caring	mapag-aruga
loving	mapagmahal
lie flat	dumapa
spit	dumura
leak	sumingaw
visit	dalawin
become difficult	humirap
lengthen	pahabain
shorten	paiksiin
beautiful	magandahan
ugly	mapangitan
ugly	papangitin
big	malakihan
small	maliitan
long	mahabaan
short	maiksian
heavy	mabigatan
light	magaanan
throw	itapon
characteristic	mapagsamantala
fall	bumagsak
fall	ibagsak
exile	ipatapon
throw	magtapon
dumpsite	tapunan
sneeze	bumahin
vomit	sumuka
have	lumindol
fatten	tumaba
turn red	pumula
frown	sumimangot
burp	dumighay
become fast	bumilis
become dark	dumilim
flooded	bumaha
mother	mumshie
pregnant	jontis
assistant	julalay
efficient	episyente
petticoat	nagwas
jicama	singkamasan
well	balitado
keep	panatilihin
set	iset
hide	itago
cut	putulin
ascend	umakyat
fifth	ika-singko
rich	mabitamina
crab	onse-onse
greenness	kaberdehan
last stretch	petsa de peligro
bread	pan de regla
sweet rice cake pastry delicacy	puto seko
put on	isuot
share	i-share
like	i-like
post	i-post
comment	mag-comment
stay	magstay
withdraw	mag-withdraw
apply	mag-apply
resign	magresign
advantageous	liyamado
grow younger	bumata
timetable	talaorasan
table	talahanayan
make empty	basyuhin
have	magpaopera
beautiful	magpaganda
convince	kumbinsihin
go back	bumuwelta
return	buwelta
answer back	buweltahan
insinuation	patutsada
explode	sumabog
slip	dumulas
shine	sumikat
collapse	gumuho
rove	gumala
imaginary number	gunimbilang
vaccinate	bakunahan
operate	mag-opera
sheath	kaluban
sheath	bayna
condition	kondisyon
airplane	mag-eroplano
verify	beripikahin
vote	iboto
stupid voter	bobotante
swordfight	mag-espadahan
corrupt	korap
freedom	layaw
appellation	siyaho
flute	plawta
work	empleyo
accident	aksidente
process	magproseso
Great Britain	Gran Britanya
Great Britain	Britanya
British Empire	Reyno Unido
triangle	tilasitha
Scotland	Eskosya
expensive jewel	brilyante
Liechtenstein	Litstenstayn
Czechia	Tsekya
Czechia	Tseko
Czechia	Republikang Tseko
Vatican	Batikano
Hungary	Unggarya
Serbia	Serbya
Bosnia	Bosniya
Finland	Pinlandya
Tunisia	Tunisya
Belarusian	Rusoblanka
Belarusian	rusoblanko
Belarusian	rusoblanka
Belarusian	belaruso
Belarusian	belarusa
Tuason	Quitson
blank space	blangko
hurry	mamilis
kerosene	kerosin
jeepney	dyipni
astrology	dalubituinan
lauriat	loryat
title	pamagat
analysis	analisis
there be	mayroon
soldier	kawal
triumphant	matagumpay
head over heels	torete
round	bilao
Western Asia	Kanlurang Asya
fellow being	kapwa
spiciness	anghang
I don't know	ewan
sow	maghasik
hyacinth	hasinto
of that	niyon
stormy season	tagbagyo
harvest season	tag-ani
flu season	tagtrangkaso
ice	kayeluhan
put	halangan
worn	akibat
mirror	panganinuhan
middle finger	hinggigitna
Annona muricata	unaba
donkey	buriko
colt	bisiro
decimetre	desimetro
phone	telebabad
creamy	makrema
Chinese spinach	polonchay
Middle Ages	Edad Medya
decilitre	desilitro
centilitre	sentilitro
condemnatory	mapagkondena
Bicolano	Bikolano
and	tsaka
Bicol	Kabikulan
cessation	tigil
big basket	tigad
tilted	tikwas
fold	tiklop
tight	tikho
capital city	Sorsogon City
capital city	Masbate City
Masbate	Ticao
limit	hanggan
raja	ladya
pennant	pindol
relic	relikaryo
mango season	tagmangga
strong kick	tadyak
fate	tadhana
repudiation	takwil
imagination	takitaki
unbalanced	tabingi
screen	tabing
uncircumcised	sungaw
fragrance	halimunmon
persuasion	hikayat
dodge	ilag
bottom	ilalim
birdling	inakay
hen	inahin
descendant	inapo
rhythm	indayog
sugarcane	inupas
careful	maingat
pity	lunos
heat	magsalang
serve	maglingkod
hide	maglingid
grandmother	maglola
grandfather	maglolo
father	mag-ama
disappear	magmaliw
march	magmartsa
make a living	maghanapbuhay
prepare	maghanda
reign	maghari
divide	maghati
yawn	maghikab
wear earrings	maghikaw
sigh	maghimutok
snore	maghilik
revolt	maghimagsik
stop	maghinto
infer	maghinuha
wear jewelry	maghiyas
become poor	maghirap
cease	maghumpay
drink alcoholic beverage excessive	maglango
butcher	maglapa
describe	maglarawan
use	maglaso
form	maglangib
flirt	maglantod
wash	maglanggas
make joke	magbiro
ride	magbisikleta
wild animal	ganid
cylinder	espasol
melody	himig
inference	hinuha
scarecrow	balyan
war	digmaan
sometimes	minsan
scarecrow	espantaho
my name is	ako si
where do you live	saan ka nakatira
I live in Melbourne	nakatira ako sa Melbourne
how old are you	ilang taong gulang ka na
I'm twenty years old	ako ay dalawampung taong gulang
merry Christmas	maligayang pasko
pronunciation	pagbigkas
thundery	makulog
brand	tatak
yawn	hakay
go away	lumayas ka
thank you very much	maraming salamat
holy basil	kamangkaw
pulverized	durog
toward	patungo
disguise	balatkayo
damp	halumigmig
framework	estruktura
small chair pillow	almuwada
cock-a-doodle-doo	tiktilaok
Asian	Asyano
I'm deaf	bingi ako
I'm blind	bulag ako
underwear	damit-panloob
crowbar	bareta
slight pressure	diit
policeman	parak
progressive	maunlad
progress	unlad
tag question	hindi ba
sautéed	ginisa
untidiness	gusgos
hit	gulpi
quality	kabinian
roof	bubungan
shirt	kamisa
pig dealer	magbababoy
earthworm	bulati
event	pangyayari
tease	mang-asar
disgrace	bumatik
split	biyak
rice cake	kakanin
admit	aminin
direction	direksiyon
halt	hinto
Philippines	parian
immediately	kapagdaka
grief	pighati
parsley	perehil
lust	iyag
sneeze	bumahing
sneeze	humatsing
laugh aloud	humalakhak
be born	sumilang
meaning	ibig sabihin
anthropology	antropolohiya
cross	ekisan
horsepower	kabalyo
godmother	kumare
earring	arilyos
sponge	espongha
clay	arsilya
clay	luwad
medal	medalya
market	palengke
magician	salamangkero
carabao	anwang
roofing	atip
continuous ringing	dupikal
election	eleksiyon
diligence	sikap
voyage	lakbay
fellow traveller	kalakbay
traveler	manlalakbay
act	pagtapak
intelligence	talino
antagonist	katalo
jump	tumalon
mimic	gumagad
milky	magatas
melodious	malambing
plenty	malamok
full	maipis
approach	gumilid
horizon	kagiliran
border	pagilid
translation	pagsasalin
nationalization	pagsasabansa
rift	hidwaan
calcium	kalsiyo
breakfast	mag-almusal
look after	mag-asikaso
recognize	mabosesan
feeling	damdam
afflict	magdeliryo
suffer	ginawin
imperialism	imperyalismo
influence	impluwensiya
race	karera
question mark	tandang pananong
exclamation point	tandang padamdam
crystalline	malakristal
gulf	golpo
agglutinative	mapaglapilapi
sheep	obeha
underpants	karsonsilyo
ragged	gulanit
but	subalit
gap	siwang
slap	tampal
placing	dantay
winged bean	kalamismis
passenger	mananakay
worrisome	nakakapagpabagabag
support	albay
landfill	tambakan ng basura
anniversary	anibersaryo
apostasy	apostasiya
jealous	panibughuin
proclamation	proklamasyon
twisted	tapilok
clear	ligpit
draw	igib
sowing	hasik
draw	kabig
history	historya
pull	kumabig
tempt	tumukso
be	pag-initan
annoy	mang-abala
infested	anayin
fib	bulaan
weaken	rumupok
graduate	grumadweyt
boiling	halabos
fallen	hambalang
straight box	sapok
tilted upward	tingala
grate	kudkurin
faded	kumupas
look up	tingalaan
fragility	karupukan
trip	matisod
numbness	ngimay
amend	mag-amyenda
palm branch distribute	palaspas
washed	nilabhan
wring out	pigain
want	magustuhan
abused	pinagsamantalahan
menstruation	buwanang dalaw
wash one's hands of	maghugas-kamay
replacement	karelyebo
clamor	hiyaw
request	ipagbilin
honor	dangal
nothing	bokya
nature	kalikasan
infect	manghawa
theory	teoriya
post	mag-post
like	mag-like
tweet	mag-tweet
annoyed	mabuwisit
annoy	mambuwisit
tenacity	tiyaga
bazaar	tiyangge
run aground	sumadsad
uncle	tiyuhin
aunt	tiyahin
condemn	kondenahin
judge	husgahan
judgment	husga
judge	manghusga
paper	kalatas
bar	rehas
harmonica	silindro
aim	umasinta
aim	asinta
bluster	mambulahaw
ungodly hour	dis-oras
soothe	pampalubag-loob
precarious	kapit sa patalim
rust	kalawangin
hem	lilip
pray	magdasal
prayer	dasal
become damp	mamasa
archer	mamamana
convent	kumbento
look out	dumungaw
swelling	bintog
blister	mamintog
turn yellow	manilaw
content	makontento
lay an egg	mangitlog
pickpocket	mandukot
new idea	pakulo
like	mapagtripan
pork belly	liempo
amulet	agimat
contact	kontakin
die	maghingalo
annually	taon-taon
potholed	malubak
forced open	tungkab
stand	tirik
material	tibay
patter	tagiktik
look	tingin
collection	tipon
deportment	tindig
stand up for	manindigan
partner	katuwang
carpenter	baktaw
thicket	sukal
upside-down	tumbalik
hit dead center	tumbok
giving guidance	tunton
duty	tungkol
bundle	tungkos
bundle	bungkos
pull	sabunutan
throwing water	saboy
shrill cry	palahaw
paleness	pusyaw
framework	baskag
goiter	buklaw
torch	huwepe
frying spoon	siyansi
medicine	singkak
lip	tiim
big	tuwabak
shadow	kanlong
shelter	kanlungan
domestic servant	kasambahay
snack	kiamoy
canned	de-lata
cigarette butt	biha
insult	laitin
cheeky	pilyo
frequent traffic jam	matrapik
insult	manlait
pull	manabunot
ranch	rantso
kuto	kutong aso
scholar	iskolar
cleaning rag	basahan
catch	dakip
badly done	palpak
requirement	rekisitos
centenary	sentenaryo
ceremony	seremonya
rhythm	kumpas
defend	depensahan
crown	koronahan
verdict	sentensiya
sentence	sentensiyahan
glory	kaluwalhatian
piece	kapiraso
get	makunan
gloomy	makulimlim
slow	dahan-dahan
motorized	de-motor
controversy	kontrobersiya
convulsion	kumbulsiyon
cooperation	pagtutulungan
force	dahas
complication	komplikasyon
fund	pondohan
mung bean	munggo
study	pag-aralan
oppressive	mapaniil
abusive	mapang-api
adulterous	mapang-apid
judgmental	mapanghusga
abusive	mapang-abuso
diplomacy	diplomasya
screw	turnilyo
mocking	mapangutya
medium	kanduli
though	bagaman
uneven	bako-bako
marsh	kumunoy
cataract	katarata
frequently uttered word	bukambibig
send away	palayasin
get lost	maligaw
untidy	salaula
wasteful	aksayado
bored	maburyong
bored	buryong
insult	mang-insulto
hurt	manakit
insulting	mapang-insulto
intriguing	nakakaintriga
embarrassed	mapahiya
shame	kahihiyan
shame	pahiyain
annoyance	konsumisyon
illegitimate child	anak sa ligaw
much	di hamak
philanthropist	pilantropo
image	imahen
launch	lantsa
lottery	loterya
kabayo	kabayong pangarera
tiny mosquito	niknik
racecourse	karerahan
leaning	dukwang
immodesty	gaslaw
you	niyo
anguish	hinagpis
command	tagubilin
speak	mag-Bisaya
lousy	talunan
defeated	matalo
argue	magtalo
convention	kumbensiyon
punch	manuntok
tadpole	kitikiti
spark	pilantik
crossbow	pasulo
choking	samid
choke	masamid
fistfight	suntukan
punch	makipagsuntukan
language	lengguwahe
maintain	magpanatili
brightness	kaliwanagan
coffin	ataul
contribution	ambag
haughty	maangas
offended	agrabyado
concede	magparaya
oppress	maagrabyado
tentacle	galamay
lewdness	kabastusan
sudden	hagulhol
roughness	gaspang
cowardice	karuwagan
shoot	mamaril
cashier	kahero
edition	edisyon
philosophy	pilosopiya
confederacy	kumpederasyon
ignorance	ignoransiya
favorite	paborito
pilfer	mangupit
cheat	manloko
gambling establishment	pasugalan
importance	importansiya
landlady	kasera
safe	kaha de yero
aviator	manlilipad
gathering	lipumpon
astrophysics	astropisika
gallnut	agalya
caul fat	impilya
punctuation	bantas
shepherd	pastol
cripple	baldahin
give away	ipamigay
lend	mangutang
chemical substance	kemikal
victimize	mambiktima
sulking	pagtatampo
blessing	basbas
cover up	pagtakpan
doubt	pagdudahan
foreboding	kabado
calm	kalmado
hydrology	danumnayan
receive	tumanggap
like that	ganoon
like this	ganito
Filipina	Pilipina
unglued	tuklap
falsehood	kunwari
presumption	akala
after	pagkatapos
reason	katuwiran
secret	sikreto
if	kapag
woman	bestido
coalition	koalisyon
fool around	magloko
biophysics	biyopisika
seismology	sismolohiya
remind	abahin
capable	maabilidad
cadmium	kadmiyo
potassium	potasyo
strontium	estronsiyo
lead	barha
etc.	at iba pa
love affair	romansa
rhizome	ayuyang
rushing	kamotpusa
bivalve mollusc	almeha
ambiguous	talohimig
speed	taloiryap
corridor	pasilyo
soul	kaluluwa
spirituality	espiritwalidad
lactose	laktosa
announcement	anunsiyo
adoption	adopsiyon
addiction	adiksiyon
syllable	pantig
obituary	obitwaryo
observatory	obserbatoryo
occasion	okasyon
ophthalmology	optalmolohiya
office	mag-opisina
original	orihinal
originality	orihinalidad
oxidation	oksidasyon
opinion	palagay
hemorrhoid	almoranas
like	kagustuhan
window blinds	persiyana
protein	protina
vulva	puwerta
row	hanay
question	katanungan
personhood	katauhan
adolescent	bagets
consultant	konsultant
female	pakialamera
female envious	inggitera
except	maliban
again	na naman
prepare	magtimpla
against	laban kay
attribution	atribusyon
personal charm	alindog
together	sabay
gravity	dagsin
greasy	magrasa
poor	taong grasa
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜁ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜂ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜃ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜄ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜅ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜆ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜇ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜈ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜉ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜊ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜋ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜌ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜎ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜏ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜐ
Tagalog Baybayin	ᜑ
vowel	ᜓ
vowel	ᜒ
Spanish	Espanyol
colleague	kabaro
recommend	irekomenda
criticism	kritisismo
association	asosasyon
tragic	matrahedya
leap	lumundag
iron ring	argolya
hearsay	kwentong-barbero
teapot	tsarera
wave	kaway
export	magluwas
control	magtimpi
store	magtinggal
look	tumingin
massage gently	humimas
gentle massage	paghimas
undress	maghubad
even though	kahit
even though	kahit na
oatmeal	otmil
estafa	estapa
strategy	estratehiya
irreverent	lapastangan
act irreverent	lumapastangan
act irreverent	maglapastangan
outrage	kalapastangan
crumpled	lapirot
crumple	lumapirot
dimple	tagunya
scorpion	pitumbuko
scorpion	atang-atang
servant	bataan
piggy bank	bungkugan
winged bean	kabay
cloud	panganurin
noisy	masamok
slingshot	palapatik
nosebleed	tunggo
bat	kulapnit
butterfly	kulilipaw
species	bangkukang
feel	indahin
eat	magkeyk
snobbishness	pagkasuplado
memorized	kabisado
horseshoe	bakal ng kabayo
sacred lotus	baino
Augustinian	Agustino
foster father	ama-amahan
alfalfa	alpapa
echo	umalingawngaw
state	alimpungat
offer	mag-alay
addict	adikto
adverb	adberbiyo
climb	akyat
climb	akyatin
cause	abyugin
attend	umabyad
attend	abyarin
abuse	mag-abuso
abortionist	aborsiyonista
highwayman	mang-aabat
waylay	mang-abat
defecate	umaa
prone	malindol
suffer	lindulin
cleanser	panlinis
weaver ant	tagasaw
move backward	umurong
Venetian blind	benesyana
use	magbentilador
enmity	awayan
husband	mag-asawa
egoistic	maako
ego	kaakuhan
fitting	agpang
icing	aysing
fit	mag-agpang
erode	umagnas
something	bilaok
become sour	umasim
fast	mag-ayuno
singer	mang-aawit
autopsy	surimbangkay
atom	mulapik
suffer	atayin
monied	maatik
administration	pangangasiwa
administrator	tagapangasiwa
stammering	at-at
artistic	maarte
oppress	apihin
persuade gently	atigin
appreciation	apresyasyon
Arabia	Arabya
calabur tree	aratiles
heroism	kagitingan
court trial	paghuhukom
kiampong	kiyampong
perchance	sakali
delay	antala
lychee	litsiyas
kind	antipalo
lavender	alusema
property tax	amilyaramyento
mayoress	alkaldesa
waste	aksaya
hesitant	alangan
late	gutoy
farming	pagbubukid
farming	pagsasaka
agency	ahensiya
literary work	akda
bark	aw-aw
rickety	aalog-alog
transparent	aninag
authority	awtoridad
agreement	sang-ayon
act	akusa
clapper	badaho
fasten	balakil
rainbow	bahagsubay
responsibility	bahala
way	kalooban
reason why	kabaktan
lowness	kababaan
social	panlipunan
large beetle	ambuwang
ambulance	ambulansiya
wait	antay
wait	antabay
on the contrary	bagkos
smear	bahid
Indian mulberry	bangkoro
play	magbanda
gizzard	balumbalunan
haunch	balisakang
shumai	siyomay
ampere	amperyo
noticed in passing	alintana
rack	bumatak
sudden jump	balikwas
bazooka	basuka
belfry	batingawan
act	mamalat-sibuyas
accusation	sakdal
brawler	basag-ulero
cannot	bawal
park	pumarada
fallen	lupasay
twenty-one	dalawampu't isa
twenty-two	dalawampu't dalawa
twenty-three	dalawampu't tatlo
twenty-four	dalawampu't apat
twenty-five	dalawampu't lima
twenty-six	dalawampu't anim
twenty-seven	dalawampu't pito
twenty-eight	dalawampu't walo
twenty-nine	dalawampu't siyam
deafened	bigaw
become broken	bumigay
girdle	bigkis
begonia	bigonya
strangle	bigtihin
hermaphrodite	biniboy
microsome	miklawas
rolling pin	pambilo
die	bawian ng buhay
have	bawian
expose	magbilad
joke	biruin
billionaire	bilyonaryo
vicar	bikaryo
Jew's harp	birimbaw
release	bumitiw
volt	boltiyo
bowling	boling
broccoli	brokuli
joint	bugnitbugnit
first customer	buwenamano
Buddhism	Budismo
Buddhist	Budista
newly born mouse	bubuwit
whirlwind	ipuipo
small	dugyot
female billionaire	bilyonarya
old	bakokang
meteoroid	bulalayak
planet	buntala
planetoid	malabuntala
asteroid	malatala
astronomer	dalubtala
astronomical	dalubtalain
killing	pugok
chickenpox	bulutong-tubig
chickenpox	bulutong-manok
person	bulutunggo
worth	kabuluhan
meaningful	makabuluhan
drive	itaboy
dam	bumbon
bourgeois	burges
sigh	buntonghininga
cylindrical container	bumbong
porcupinefish	buteteng-laot
bass viol	biyolon
serves you right	buti nga sa iyo
dwarfish	bulilit
mention	banggit
version	bersiyon
mortise	bakam
broken	bakli
assertion	badya
shawl	balabal
New Testament	Bagong Tipan
Old Testament	Lumang Tipan
viscount	biskonde
viscountess	biskondesa
snake fruit	alimuran
botanist	dalubhalman
continuous flow	daloy
spurt	buwelo
extra	butal
goiter	bosyo
perforated	busbos
bungalow	bunggalo
bougainvillea	bunggabilya
vociferous man	bungangero
vociferous woman	bungangera
gush	bulwak
junk food	tsitsirya
mean	bulastog
reinforcing hoop	buklod
mumps	baiki
open	buklat
dawn	liwayway
dig	bukalkal
chunk	tipak
flat	bithay
obvious	bistado
virus	birus
flat	bimol
delayed	bimbin
fasting abstinence	bihilya
vigilante	bihilante
vernacular	bernakulo
four	bakol
bacteria	bakterya
eroded	bagbag
novice	baguhan
young bachelor	baguntao
hemorrhoid	balaid
set aside	isantabi
shortcut path	balagtas
pupil	balintataw
absurd	balintuna
irony	balintunay
vanilla	baynilya
banjo	bandyo
weathercock	banoglawin
species	bangkuta
banquet	bangkete
draft	banghay
barber shop	barberya
bachelor's degree	batsilyer
old	beho
bandage	bendahe
cadence	ragsak
rumor	sabi-sabi
archaeology	arkeolohiya
shade	lilim
bathe	maligo
chupa	gatang
adhesive	pandikit
intermittent attack	dalahik
hard blow	dagok
zoologist	dalubhayop
ornithologist	dalub-ibon
psychologist	dalub-isip
sociologist	dalub-ulnong
political scientist	dalubbanwa
ethnologist	dalublahi
anthropologist	dalubtao
ichthyology	dalub-isdaan
ichthyologist	dalub-isda
entomology	dalubkulisapan
entomologist	dalubkulisap
conchology	dalubkabibihan
dining table	hapag-kainan
high noon	tanghaling-tapat
character	tauhan
friend	kabungguang-balikat
medium	bulung-ita
polygon	damsiha
pentagon	limsiha
implicated	madamay
mechanics	sigwasan
big boat	daong
dab	dampi
looting	dambong
but	datapwat
Ursa Major	Daong-daungan
cursive writing	dikit-dikit
plunderer	mandarambong
shampoo	siyampu
handmade	de-mano
conqueror	mananakop
toilet	palikuran
mababa	mababang kapulungan
female dean	dekana
harsh	mabagsik
snobbery	isnab
feed milk	magdede
snatching	dekwat
dialect	diyalekto
dialogue	diyalogo
demonstration	demostrasyon
dentistry	dentisteriya
subsidy	subsidiya
destination	destinasyon
description	deskripsiyon
fooled	denggoy
belch	dighal
dictionary	diksiyonaryo
dictatorship	diktadura
pimple	tigyawat
difference	diperensiya
plum preserve	dikyam
proverb	kasabihan
by the way	siyanga pala
promenade	pasyal
park	pasyalan
soap dish	habonera
laundry detergent	sabong panlaba
pasture	pastulan
oligarch	oligarka
oligopoly	oligopolyo
monopoly	monopolyo
opacity	opasidad
offertory	opertoryo
ordinance	ordenansa
more or less	humigit-kumulang
lexicographer	leksikograpo
lexicography	leksikograpiya
radio	diglap
lexicographic	leksikograpiko
diameter	diyametro
orchid	orkid
ordinance	kautusan
depreciation	depresasyon
isn't it	'di ba
passacaglia	pasakalye
common	pangkaraniwan
password	pasword
diplomat	diplomatiko
dynasty	dinastiya
dinosaur	dinosawro
pigment	dinsol
chlorophyll	luntidinsol
xanthophyll	dilawdinsol
covered	pawisan
peculiarity	pekulyaridad
pension	pensiyon
pensioner	pensiyonado
peculiar	pekulyar
wig	peluka
penance	penitensiya
phenomenon	penomeno
door	pintuan
biko	sinukmani
vegetable hummingbird	katuray
there	riyan
goddess	diyosa
desert	desyerto
distance	distansiya
disqualification	diskuwalipikasyon
distrustful	diskompiyado
strategy	deskarte
sixteen	disiseis
neckerchief	alampay
disciplined	disiplinado
disciple	disipulo
bloody	duguan
decent	desente
accident	desgrasya
disgust	rimarim
climb	panhik
binoculars	binokulo
freed	hulagpos
small hole	aaban
downward slide	dausdos
newspaper	diyaryo
majestic	dakila
arrival	dagsa
abstract conception	dalumat
sudden physical onslaught	daluhong
cork tree	daluro
all night	magdamag
big	bardagol
side	danay
female Dane	Danesa
declaration	deklara
dedication	dedikasyon
debater	debatista
dirigible	dirihible
jazz	dyas
doctorate degree	doktorado
donation	donasyon
big blaze	dubdob
act	dukal
gatecrasher	kolado
charming	simpatiko
dormitory	dormitoryo
unfashionable	dyologs
punk	dyologin
become unfashionable	dyumologs
destruction	destruksiyon
emotion	emosyon
elegance	elegansiya
sculpture	eskultura
fraudster	estapador
statue	estatwa
statue	rebulto
side	tagiliran
brochure	polyeto
potential	potensiyal
provincial	probinsiyano
professionalism	propesyonalismo
profession	propesyon
professional	propesyonal
senile	ulianin
economist	dalub-agimat
evidence	ebidensiya
female Spaniard	Espanyola
sphinx	espinghe
establishment	establisimyento
embassy	pasuguan
draw attention	umepal
harpy	arpiya
ermine	arminyo
archangel	arkanghel
African	Aprikano
female African	Aprikana
archbishopric	arsobispado
apostolic	apostoliko
Apocrypha	Apokripos
weakness	kahinaan
faintheartedness	kahinaang loob
grove	kakahuyan
custom	kalakaran
stethoscope	estetoskopyo
scribe	eskriba
exclusive	eksklusibo
scandalous	eskandaloso
escalator	eskalador
energy	enerhiya
encounter	engkuwentro
indigestion	empatso
packing	empake
betting	pustahan
armadillo	armadilyo
evangelist	ebanghelista
evolution	ebolusyon
baggage	ekipahe
football	putbol
epilepsy	epilepsiya
false comfort	konsuwelo de-bobo
wide	kalamba
turning	diskita
discovery	deskubri
chickpea	garbansos
spider	alalawa
pompous	magarbo
balut vendor	magbabalot
rice vendor	magbibigas
person	magbobote
whole day	maghapon
mother	mag-ina
meat cutter	magkakarne
mother	magnanay
magnesium	magnesyo
magnetic	magnetiko
magnifier	magnipayer
magnifier	magnipikador
justice	mahistrado
boater	mamamangka
lawmaker	mambabatas
journalist	mamamahayag
capital letter	malaking titik
free verse	malayang taludturan
nicotine	nikotina
feed fire	maggatong
acquaintance	kakilala
middle	kalagitnaan
numbness	kalambre
calamondin	kalamunding
flying squirrel	giggi
light rain	gawangan
crocodile tear	luha ng buwaya
make a fool of	gaguhin
crawl	gumapang
six	gahumay
New World	Bagong Daigdig
ankle joint	bukong-bukungan
seahorse	kabayong-dagat
bluff	mambobola
conniver	konsentidor
drunkard	manginginom
tolerate	konsentihin
conscience	konsiyensiya
suitor	manliligaw
collector	kobrador
hook	gantso
like that	ganiyan
portion	gasgas
collect payment	mangobra
criminal code	kodigo-penal
civil code	kodigo sibil
commentator	komentarista
Christian	Kristiyano
crucifix	krusipiho
bedcover	kubrekama
chronology	kronolohiya
1 Chronicles	1 Cronica
chrysanthemum	krisantemo
conventional	kumbensiyonal
Cupid	Kupido
choreography	koreograpiya
accountant	kontador
contestant	kontestant
broker	koredor
acrostic	akrostik
side	kostado
corruption	korupsiyon
pantropical	tawa-tawa
conditioner	kondisyoner
consulate	konsulado
discount	deskuwento
play	gumanap
able	maganap
collective	palansak
collective noun	pangngalang palansak
milking	paggatas
Holy Communion	komunyon
condiment	kondimento
connection	koneksiyon
conservatory	konserbatoryo
make up	gumawa-gawa
conservatism	konserbatismo
conservative	konserbatibo
midwife	komadrona
praying mantis	mandadangkal
sautée	gisahin
presence	presensiya
Intsik beho	Intsik beho, tulo laway
Intsik beho	Intsik beho
codification	kodipikasyon
compartment	kompartment
contortionist	kontorsiyonista
corolla	korola
cotillion	kotilyon
credential	kredensiyal
laundry	labahan
laundry	labahin
washing machine	labadora
fuss	kesyo
ketchup	ketsap
pressed for time	gipit
common bamboo	kiling-kawayan
distance	kilometrahe
golden	ginintuan
chemical	kimiko
relation	kinakapatid
shininess	kinang
Miss	Gining
crumple	gusot
imagination	guniguni
fun stuff	gimik
ornament	gayak
toy wheel	gulong-gulungan
related	kinalaman
result	kinalabasan
authority	kinauukulan
for instance	kumbaga
if	kapagka
if	pagka
guano	guwano
tearing	gutay
shock	gulantang
St. Thomas bean	gugo
grunt	gukgok
graphite	grapito
Gothic	Gotiko
glycerine	gliserina
gladiator	gladyador
hyphen	gitling
sudden fright	gitla
weathercock	girimpula
rose geranium	malbarosa
guillotine	gilyotina
dessert	ginatan
food	ginataan
cutting	gilgil
cry	gibik
like this	ganiri
like this	gayari
apostolate	gawalagad
award	gawad
modesty	hinhin
very young girl	dalaginday
guinea pig	dagang kosta
nevertheless	gayunman
likewise	gayundin
small	gaga-
dash	gatlang
quinine	kinina
Sunday	Dominggo
infection	impeksiyon
inspection	inspeksiyon
inspect	inspeksiyunin
instruction	instruksiyon
immigration	inmigrasyon
slanting cut	gilib
little grebe	kanisid
little grebe	sulyasid
globe amaranth	butones-butonesan
nutgrass	buto-butonesan
loud boasting	kalandak
boast	mangalandakan
desperation	desesperasyon
desperation	desperasyon
deregulation	deregulasyon
disinfection	desimpeksiyon
exile	destiyero
beam	barakilan
jasmine	hasmin
female general	henerala
Jesus Christ	Hesukristo
Jesuit	Heswita
hypodermic syringe	heringgilya
geology	heolohiya
disadvantage	desbentaha
female Japanese	Haponesa
waxflower	pawi-pawikan
pheasant	benggala
until	hanggang
for instance	kungyari
circumstance	bagay-bagay
regarding	bagay sa
after all	kung sa bagay
person	pahamak
compare	ihambing
cinnamon	sinamomo
come on	bamos
hold	humawak
hold	maghawak
socialism	ulnungkuro
hole	gumban
may	harimanawari
Pres	Pang.
Jan	Ene.
Feb.	Peb.
Apr.	Abr.
Jun.	Hun.
Jul.	Hul.
Gen.	Hen.
no.	blg.
Gov.	Gob.
Aug.	Ago.
prudishness	selang
Sep.	Set.
Oct.	Okt.
chatterbox	daldalero
female chatterbox	daldalera
irritable	iritable
slogan	islogan
intensive	intensibo
intention	intensiyon
irritation	iritasyon
infrastructure	impraestruktura
inflammation	implamasyon
inflation	implasyon
initiative	inisyatiba
impartial	imparsiyal
vice mayor	bise-alkalde
vice governor	bise-gobernador
vice president	bise-presidente
synonym	kasingkahulugan
presidency	pagkapangulo
than	kay sa
coastguard	guwardakosta
kiss	manghalik
take	humalili
fragrance	halimuyak
row	halayhay
vice president	pangalawang pangulo
bottom	bottomesa
look	tignan
defecate	mag-aa
association	kapisanan
defeat	talunin
molest	molestahin
theater	palabasan
trouble	molestiya
accordance	pangyari
exception	lagpas
kiss	maghalikan
help	magtulungan
residential area	panirahan
residential area	panirahanan
residence	tirahan
laugh	pagtawanan
full	mahikaw
rise	humilab
sob	hikbi
hypocrite	ipokrita
imperialist	imperyalista
insolently defiant	atrebido
inference	imperensiya
infinitive	impinitibo
infinitive	pawatas
soapmaker	habonero
invalid	imbalido
illegitimate	ilehitimo
pretty please	sige na
run after	habulin
contradictory	hidwa
anachronistic	anakroniko
amphibian	ampibyan
amphitheatre	ampiteatro
scissors	panggupit
vaccinated	bakunado
large male bee	ambubuyog
variety	muthang anwang
chew betel	maghitso
historian	historyador
bastard	anak-sa-labas
Numbers	Mga Bilang
Song of Songs	Awit ng mga Awit
irregularity	iregularidad
hypocrisy	ipokrisiya
homeland	inang bayan
native language	inang wika
Indian	Indiyan
uphold	indiyan
African American	Negra
pretend cooking	luto-lutuan
parking	himpil
rebellion	himagsik
fragrant soap	habonete
soap dish	sabunan
historian	istoryador
Hispanism	Ispanismo
type	alimpayawan
Hawaiian	Hawayano
rest	pahinga
violent	biyolento
afraid	humina ang loob
cowardly	mahina ang loob
large tilapia fish	plapla
air force	hukbong-panghimpapawid
used	panghimpapawid
appeal	paghahabol
water lower	uwas
Sumatran pine	tapulaw
game	wahoy
Baybayin	ᜈᜅ᜔
swindle	manghuthot
suck	humuthot
jurisdiction	hurisdiksiyon
lychee	alupag-amo
threaten	betis-lalaki
longan	alupag
termite	absik
obsess	mahumaling
stopping	hantong
fall in love	mahulog ang loob
fall	mahulog
exceed	humigit
less	kumulang
substitute	halip
haiku	hayku
act	hataw
gentle caress	haplos
people	Hanunuo
careful	halungkat
mingling	halubilo
turned over	halukay
let's go	halina
come here	halika
digging	hukay
tree	kalamansanay
promiscuous	handalapak
vagrant	hampaslupa
flogging	hambalos
crossing	halukipkip
high school	hayskul
hit	hagip
effort	hagilap
vague idea	hagap
suspicion	haka-haka
something	habilin
hierarchy	herarkiya
hieroglyphics	heroglipiko
blowing	hihip
fiber	hilatsa
deep sleep	himbing
lying down	himlay
gymnasium	himnasyo
sigh	himutok
complaint	hinakdal
calmness	hinahon
regret	hinayang
up-and-down movement	hindot
hint	hiwatig
soup	hototay
contemplation	hunos-dili
chameleon	hunyango
court trial	huwisyo
abnormality	abnormalidad
informal	impormal
playing	akompanya
accordance	alinsunod
gray color	abuhin
sugar mill	alilisan
milling	alilis
antibiotic	antibiyotiko
angle	anggulo
result	apekto
arrested	arestado
harmonica	armonika
artificial	artipisyal
hacienda owner	asendero
attention	atensiyon
automatic	awtomatiko
pitch	ayangaw
I don't know	aywan
Aeta people	Ayta
Aeta people	Ita
serves you right	hirat
